## Alexa Internet Privacy Notice

Last Updated: May 23, 2018

Alexa Internet ("Alexa") knows that you care how information about you is used
and shared, and we appreciate your trust that we will do so carefully and
sensibly. This Privacy Notice is a binding part of Alexa's Website Terms of
Use and End User License Agreement ("Agreement") and explains the type of
information Alexa collects through its website and browser extension software
("Toolbar Service") and what Alexa does with it. If you download and use
Alexa's Toolbar Service or use the Alexa website, you will be bound by the
terms of the Agreement, including this Privacy Notice. This notice may change
from time to time, so you should check it frequently.

NOTE: ALEXA'S TOOLBAR SERVICE COLLECTS AND STORES INFORMATION ABOUT THE WEB
PAGES YOU VIEW AND SEARCH QUERIES YOU MAKE. IN SOME CASES, INFORMATION
COLLECTED BY THE TOOLBAR SERVICE MAY BE PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE, BUT WE DO NOT
ATTEMPT TO ANALYZE ANY INFORMATION COLLECTED BY THE TOOLBAR SERVICE TO
DETERMINE THE IDENTITY OF ANY ALEXA USER.

### What Personal Information About Users Does Alexa Gather?

The information we learn from users helps us personalize and continually
improve your Alexa experience and provide information about Internet trends,
website popularity and traffic, and related content. Here are the types of
information we gather.

  * Information You Give Us: We receive and store any information you enter on our website or give us in any other way. [Click here] to see examples of what we collect. You can choose not to provide certain information, but then you might not be able to take advantage of many of our features. We use the information you provide for such purposes as responding to your requests, customizing and improving our services, and communicating with you.

  * Automatic Information We Collect From the Toolbar Service: When you use the Toolbar Service, we collect and store certain information. Examples include the websites you visit and the advertisements you see on those websites, the searches you perform using search engines and the search function (if included in your version) of the Toolbar Service, the results of your searches, the ways in which you use various Toolbar Service features (including whether the Toolbar Service is still installed on your computer), and your Internet Protocol (IP) address. [Click here] to see examples of what we collect. Although this information may contain some personally identifiable information, Alexa does not use it to determine the identity of individual users or correlate it to your email address or other personally identifiable information that you give us or our affiliates, except as may be required by subpoenas, court orders, or other legal requirements.

  * Other Automatic Information We Collect: We receive and store certain types of information whenever you interact with us. For example, like many websites, we use "cookies," and we obtain certain types of information when your browser accesses Alexa.com, when you interact with our features or content, or when you view advertisements and other content served by or on behalf of Alexa.com on other websites. [Click here] to see examples of the information we receive.

  * E-mail Communications: To help us make e-mails more useful and interesting, we often receive a confirmation (if your device supports such capabilities) when you open e-mail from Alexa or click on a link in the e-mail. You can choose not to receive marketing emails from us by clicking on the unsubscribe link in any marketing email.

  * Automatic Information We Collect from Other Websites: Alexa also offers products, such as the Alexa measurement pixel, that help website operators analyze traffic to their websites—for example, to determine the total number of visitors to a site. We receive and store certain types of information when you interact with such third-party websites that use our pixel or other technologies. [Click here] for examples of such information. Because Alexa processes this information on behalf of the applicable website operators, collection, processing, and use of such information is subject to the applicable website operators’ privacy policies and is not covered by our Privacy Notice. For more information about how you may choose to prevent an Alexa measurement pixel from recognizing your computer, [Click here].

  * Information from Other Sources: We may receive information about you from other sources. [Click here] to see examples of such information.

### What About Cookies?

  * Cookies are unique identifiers that we transfer to your device to enable our systems to recognize your device.

  * The Help feature on most browsers and devices will tell you how to prevent your browser or device from accepting new cookies, how to have the browser or device notify you when you receive a new cookie, and how to disable cookies altogether.

### Does Alexa Share the Information It Receives?

We share user data with our parent corporation, Amazon.com, Inc., and the
subsidiaries it controls, and we may share personally identifiable information
with third parties only as described below.

  * Businesses We Do Not Control: We may make available to you services, products, or applications provided by third parties for use on or through Alexa services. For example, if you use a third-party search engine offered through our Toolbar Service, we will transmit your search term and IP address to that company so that it can provide you with the requested search results. Likewise, if you download our Toolbar Service from a third-party website, the Toolbar Service may display the third party's brand, and consequently that third party may receive information about your use of the Toolbar Service. You can tell when a third party is involved in your transactions, and if you choose to use such service, customer information related to those transactions may be shared with that third party.

  * Third-Party Service Providers: We employ other companies and individuals to perform functions on our behalf. Examples include storing and analyzing data, providing search results and links (including paid listings and links), providing customer service, and payment processing. They have access to user information needed to perform their functions, but may not use it for other purposes.

  * Business Transfers: As we continue to develop our business, we might sell or buy subsidiaries or business units. In such transactions, user information generally is one of the transferred business assets but remains subject to the promises made in any pre-existing privacy notice (unless, of course, the user consents otherwise). Also, in the event that Alexa or substantially all of its assets are acquired, user information will of course be one of the transferred assets.

  * Protection of Alexa and Others: We release account and other personally identifiable information when we believe release is appropriate to comply with the law; enforce or apply our Terms of Use and other agreements; or protect the rights, property, or safety of Alexa, our users, or others. This may include exchanging information with other companies and organizations for fraud protection and credit risk reduction. Obviously, however, this does not include selling, renting, sharing, or otherwise disclosing personally identifiable information from users for commercial purposes in violation of the commitments set forth in this Privacy Notice.

  * With Your Consent: Other than as set out above, you will receive notice when personally identifiable information about you might go to third parties, and you will have an opportunity to choose not to share the information.

### How Secure Is Information About Me?

  * Alexa uses commercially reasonable information security safeguards to protect its databases and servers against risks of loss, unauthorized access, destruction, misuse, modification, or inadvertent or improper disclosure of data.

  * Alexa segregates certain personally identifiable and other information about your use of Alexa's services into separate databases, some of which can be accessed only by a limited number of employees.

  * If you have an Alexa account, it is important for you to protect against unauthorized access to your password and to your device. Be sure to sign off when finished using a shared device.

### What About Third-Party Advertising and Links to Other Websites?

We may work with advertising partners to display interest-based ads to you on
other websites. Interest-based ads, also sometimes referred to as personalized
or targeted ads, are displayed to you based on your interactions with our
sites, content, or services. For more information on interest-based
advertising policy, please visit our Interest-Based Ads page.

### Which Information Can I Access?

If you create an Alexa account, we give you access to a range of information
about your account and your interactions with us for the purpose of viewing
and, in certain cases, updating that information. [Click here] to see your
account information or edit your profile.

### What Choices Do I Have?

  * You may disable the Toolbar Service from reporting information about your web surfing activities, search terms, results of your searches, and/or statistics about your use of the Toolbar Service. Depending on which Toolbar Service you are using, you may do so either by using the Options menu (or similar menu item) or by uninstalling the relevant Toolbar Service.

  * You can choose not to receive marketing emails from us by clicking on the unsubscribe link in any marketing email.

  * At any time you may opt out of interest-based advertising by sending your request to our current advertising partners listed on our Interest-Based Ads page.

  * The Help portion on most browsers will tell you how to prevent your browser from accepting new cookies, how to have the browser notify you when you receive a new cookie, and how to disable cookies altogether. Because cookies set when you visit our website allow you to take advantage of some of Alexa’s essential features, we recommend that you leave such cookies turned on. For instance, if you block or otherwise reject certain cookies, you may not be able to use any Alexa products and services that require you to sign in to your Alexa account.

  * The Toolbar Service may enable you to update certain browser configuration settings, such as your home page or your default search provider. If supported, you may configure these options during the installation process.

### Are Children Allowed to Use Alexa?

Alexa does not offer products or services for use by children. If you are
under 18, you may use Alexa's website or the Toolbar Service only with the
involvement of a parent or guardian.

### Conditions of Use, Notices, and Revisions

If you choose to visit Alexa or use the Toolbar Service, any dispute with
Alexa over privacy is subject to this Privacy Notice and our Terms of Use,
including limitations on damages, resolution of disputes, and application of
the law of the state of Washington. If you have any concern about privacy at
Alexa, please contact us with a thorough description and we will try to
resolve it. Our business changes constantly, and our Privacy Notice and the
Website Terms of Use will change also. We stand behind the promises we make,
however, and will never materially change our policies and practices to make
them less protective of customer information collected in the past without the
consent of affected customers.

### Examples of Information Collected

####  Information You Give Us

If you register for an account at Alexa, sign up for or subscribe to an Alexa
service (other than the Toolbar Service), or download or request Alexa
content, we may collect your name, address, email address, country, nickname,
telephone number, website, company, job title, VAT ID, and credit card
information. If you download and install the Toolbar Service software, we
collect any information voluntarily provided by you during the installation
and registration process, which can include demographic information such as
gender, age, occupation, household income, and education level. Demographic
information is correlated to Web usage information collected during your use
of the Toolbar Service. In addition, you might provide us with personally
identifiable information when you communicate with us by phone, e-mail, or
otherwise or complete a questionnaire or a contest entry form.

#### Automatic Information We Collect From the Toolbar Service

For every web page you view while using the Toolbar Service, the Alexa
software transmits and stores your IP address, the full Uniform Resource
Locator (URL) clickstream to, through, and from the web page you are visiting,
general information about your browser, general information about your
computer's operating system, a unique identifier enabling Alexa to recognize
your Toolbar Service, and the date and time the above information is logged.
The Toolbar Service also automatically collects information about the online
advertisements that are displayed on the websites you visit including, the
text, source, and URL of the online ad and the terms you choose when you use
search engines to search the Web, and the results of your searches. All of
this information may be logged together in a single data string for each web
page you visit, along with strings received from our many other users.

Alexa also periodically collects usage statistics from Toolbar Service that
describe the frequency of use of each Toolbar Service feature.

Finally, to ensure accurate information about the number of Toolbar Service
users, the Toolbar Service periodically sends a signal to Alexa containing
basic information such as the IP address of your computer.

#### Automatic Information We Collect From Our Website

Examples of the information we collect and analyze when you use our website
include the IP address used to connect your device to the Internet; login;
e-mail address; password; device and connection information such as browser
type, browser engine, version, and time zone setting; browser plug-in types
and versions; operating system; purchase (e.g., subscription) history; the
full URL clickstream to, through, and from our website, including date and
time; cookie number; web pages you viewed or searched for; and the phone
number you used to call us. We may also use browser data such as cookies or
similar data on certain parts of our web site for fraud prevention, to provide
a seamless customer experience, and for other purposes. During some visits to
our website we may use software tools such as JavaScript to measure and
collect session information, including page response times, download errors,
length of visits to certain pages, page interaction information (such as
scrolling, clicks, downloads, and mouse-overs), and methods used to browse
away from the page.

#### Automatic Information We Collect From Other Websites

Examples of automatic information we collect from third-party websites on
behalf of website operators for their traffic analysis include the account
identifier for the website operator, the URLs of web pages visited, any
referring URLs to those web pages, the IP addresses and browser information,
such as browser type, browser engine, operating system, and version, of
website visitors, and a unique identifier for each website visitor.

#### Information from Other Sources

An example of information we might receive from other sources is when you
authorize a third-party website, such as Facebook, to interact directly with
our website to provide or receive personalized information about you. In that
case, we might receive such information as your name and potentially other
information used by that third-party website to identify your account with
that website.

Additional examples of information from other sources include information we
may receive from our partners to improve our web information services, which
may include truncated IP addresses, browser information, the full URL
clickstream for websites visited along with advertisements on those websites,
and the searches performed using search engines along with their results.

# Google Privacy Policy

When you use our services, you’re trusting us with your information. We
understand this is a big responsibility and work hard to protect your
information and put you in control.

This Privacy Policy is meant to help you understand what information we
collect, why we collect it, and how you can update, manage, export, and delete
your information.

Effective December 19, 2019 | Archived versions | Download PDF

## Contents

Introduction

Information Google collects

Why Google collects data

Your privacy controls

Sharing your information

Keeping your information secure

Exporting & deleting your information

Retaining your information

Compliance & cooperation with regulators

About this policy

Related privacy practices

We build a range of services that help millions of people daily to explore and
interact with the world in new ways. Our services include:

  * Google apps, sites, and devices, like Search, YouTube, and Google Home
  * Platforms like the Chrome browser and Android operating system
  * Products that are integrated into third-party apps and sites, like ads and embedded Google Maps

You can use our services in a variety of ways to manage your privacy. For
example, you can sign up for a Google Account if you want to create and manage
content like emails and photos, or see more relevant search results. And you
can use many Google services when you’re signed out or without creating an
account at all, like searching on Google or watching YouTube videos. You can
also choose to browse the web privately using Chrome in Incognito mode. And
across our services, you can adjust your privacy settings to control what we
collect and how your information is used.

To help explain things as clearly as possible, we’ve added examples,
explanatory videos, and definitions for key terms. And if you have any
questions about this Privacy Policy, you can contact us.

# Information Google collects

We want you to understand the types of information we collect as you use our
services

We collect information to provide better services to all our users — from
figuring out basic stuff like which language you speak, to more complex things
like which ads you’ll find most useful, the people who matter most to you
online, or which YouTube videos you might like. The information Google
collects, and how that information is used, depends on how you use our
services and how you manage your privacy controls.

When you’re not signed in to a Google Account, we store the information we
collect with unique identifiers tied to the browser, application, or device
you’re using. This helps us do things like maintain your language preferences
across browsing sessions.

When you’re signed in, we also collect information that we store with your
Google Account, which we treat as personal information.

## Things you create or provide to us

When you create a Google Account, you provide us with personal information
that includes your name and a password. You can also choose to add a phone
number or payment information to your account. Even if you aren’t signed in to
a Google Account, you might choose to provide us with information — like an
email address to receive updates about our services.

We also collect the content you create, upload, or receive from others when
using our services. This includes things like email you write and receive,
photos and videos you save, docs and spreadsheets you create, and comments you
make on YouTube videos.

## Information we collect as you use our services

### Your apps, browsers & devices

We collect information about the apps, browsers, and devices you use to access
Google services, which helps us provide features like automatic product
updates and dimming your screen if your battery runs low.

The information we collect includes unique identifiers, browser type and
settings, device type and settings, operating system, mobile network
information including carrier name and phone number, and application version
number. We also collect information about the interaction of your apps,
browsers, and devices with our services, including IP address, crash reports,
system activity, and the date, time, and referrer URL of your request.

We collect this information when a Google service on your device contacts our
servers — for example, when you install an app from the Play Store or when a
service checks for automatic updates. If you’re using an Android device with
Google apps, your device periodically contacts Google servers to provide
information about your device and connection to our services. This information
includes things like your device type, carrier name, crash reports, and which
apps you've installed.

### Your activity

We collect information about your activity in our services, which we use to do
things like recommend a YouTube video you might like. The activity information
we collect may include:

  * Terms you search for
  * Videos you watch
  * Views and interactions with content and ads
  * Voice and audio information when you use audio features
  * Purchase activity
  * People with whom you communicate or share content
  * Activity on third-party sites and apps that use our services
  * Chrome browsing history you’ve synced with your Google Account

If you use our services to make and receive calls or send and receive
messages, we may collect telephony log information like your phone number,
calling-party number, receiving-party number, forwarding numbers, time and
date of calls and messages, duration of calls, routing information, and types
of calls.

You can visit your Google Account to find and manage activity information
that’s saved in your account.

Go to Google Account

### Your location information

We collect information about your location when you use our services, which
helps us offer features like driving directions for your weekend getaway or
showtimes for movies playing near you.

Your location can be determined with varying degrees of accuracy by:

  * GPS
  * IP address
  * Sensor data from your device
  * Information about things near your device, such as Wi-Fi access points, cell towers, and Bluetooth-enabled devices

The types of location data we collect depend in part on your device and
account settings. For example, you can turn your Android device’s location on
or off using the device’s settings app. You can also turn on Location History
if you want to create a private map of where you go with your signed-in
devices.

* * *

In some circumstances, Google also collects information about you from
publicly accessible sources. For example, if your name appears in your local
newspaper, Google’s Search engine may index that article and display it to
other people if they search for your name. We may also collect information
about you from trusted partners, including marketing partners who provide us
with information about potential customers of our business services, and
security partners who provide us with information to protect against abuse. We
also receive information from advertisers to provide advertising and research
services on their behalf.

We use various technologies to collect and store information, including
cookies, pixel tags, local storage, such as browser web storage or application
data caches, databases, and server logs.

# Why Google collects data

We use data to build better services

We use the information we collect from all our services for the following
purposes:

### Provide our services

We use your information to deliver our services, like processing the terms you
search for in order to return results or helping you share content by
suggesting recipients from your contacts.

### Maintain & improve our services

We also use your information to ensure our services are working as intended,
such as tracking outages or troubleshooting issues that you report to us. And
we use your information to make improvements to our services — for example,
understanding which search terms are most frequently misspelled helps us
improve spell-check features used across our services.

### Develop new services

We use the information we collect in existing services to help us develop new
ones. For example, understanding how people organized their photos in Picasa,
Google’s first photos app, helped us design and launch Google Photos.

### Provide personalized services, including content and ads

We use the information we collect to customize our services for you, including
providing recommendations, personalized content, and customized search
results. For example, Security Checkup provides security tips adapted to how
you use Google products. And Google Play uses information like apps you’ve
already installed and videos you’ve watched on YouTube to suggest new apps you
might like.

Depending on your settings, we may also show you personalized ads based on
your interests. For example, if you search for “mountain bikes,” you may see
an ad for sports equipment when you’re browsing a site that shows ads served
by Google. You can control what information we use to show you ads by visiting
your ad settings.

  * We don’t show you personalized ads based on sensitive categories, such as race, religion, sexual orientation, or health.
  * We don’t share information that personally identifies you with advertisers, such as your name or email, unless you ask us to. For example, if you see an ad for a nearby flower shop and select the “tap to call” button, we’ll connect your call and may share your phone number with the flower shop.

Go to Ad Settings

### Measure performance

We use data for analytics and measurement to understand how our services are
used. For example, we analyze data about your visits to our sites to do things
like optimize product design. And we also use data about the ads you interact
with to help advertisers understand the performance of their ad campaigns. We
use a variety of tools to do this, including Google Analytics. When you visit
sites that use Google Analytics, Google and a Google Analytics customer may
link information about your activity from that site with activity from other
sites that use our ad services.

### Communicate with you

We use information we collect, like your email address, to interact with you
directly. For example, we may send you a notification if we detect suspicious
activity, like an attempt to sign in to your Google Account from an unusual
location. Or we may let you know about upcoming changes or improvements to our
services. And if you contact Google, we’ll keep a record of your request in
order to help solve any issues you might be facing.

### Protect Google, our users, and the public

We use information to help improve the safety and reliability of our services.
This includes detecting, preventing, and responding to fraud, abuse, security
risks, and technical issues that could harm Google, our users, or the public.

* * *

We use different technologies to process your information for these purposes.
We use automated systems that analyze your content to provide you with things
like customized search results, personalized ads, or other features tailored
to how you use our services. And we analyze your content to help us detect
abuse such as spam, malware, and illegal content. We also use algorithms to
recognize patterns in data. For example, Google Translate helps people
communicate across languages by detecting common language patterns in phrases
you ask it to translate.

We may combine the information we collect among our services and across your
devices for the purposes described above. For example, if you watch videos of
guitar players on YouTube, you might see an ad for guitar lessons on a site
that uses our ad products. Depending on your account settings, your activity
on other sites and apps may be associated with your personal information in
order to improve Google’s services and the ads delivered by Google.

If other users already have your email address or other information that
identifies you, we may show them your publicly visible Google Account
information, such as your name and photo. This helps people identify an email
coming from you, for example.

We’ll ask for your consent before using your information for a purpose that
isn’t covered in this Privacy Policy.

# Your privacy controls

You have choices regarding the information we collect and how it's used

This section describes key controls for managing your privacy across our
services. You can also visit the Privacy Checkup, which provides an
opportunity to review and adjust important privacy settings. In addition to
these tools, we also offer specific privacy settings in our products — you can
learn more in our Product Privacy Guide.

Go to Privacy Checkup

## Managing, reviewing, and updating your information

When you’re signed in, you can always review and update information by
visiting the services you use. For example, Photos and Drive are both designed
to help you manage specific types of content you’ve saved with Google.

We also built a place for you to review and control information saved in your
Google Account. Your Google Account includes:

### Privacy controls

### Activity Controls

Decide what types of activity you’d like saved in your account. For example,
you can turn on Location History if you want traffic predictions for your
daily commute, or you can save your YouTube Watch History to get better video
suggestions.

Go to Activity Controls

### Ad settings

Manage your preferences about the ads shown to you on Google and on sites and
apps that partner with Google to show ads. You can modify your interests,
choose whether your personal information is used to make ads more relevant to
you, and turn on or off certain advertising services.

Go to Ad Settings

### About you

Control what others see about you across Google services.

Go to About You

### Shared endorsements

Choose whether your name and photo appear next to your activity, like reviews
and recommendations, that appear in ads.

Go to Shared Endorsements

### Information you share

If you’re a G Suite user, control whom you share information with through your
account on Google+.

Go to Information You Share

### Ways to review & update your information

### My Activity

My Activity allows you to review and control data that’s created when you use
Google services, like searches you’ve done or your visits to Google Play. You
can browse by date and by topic, and delete part or all of your activity.

Go to My Activity

### Google Dashboard

Google Dashboard allows you to manage information associated with specific
products.

Go to Dashboard

### Your personal information

Manage your contact information, such as your name, email, and phone number.

Go to Personal Info

When you’re signed out, you can manage information associated with your
browser or device, including:

  * Signed-out search personalization: Choose whether your search activity is used to offer you more relevant results and recommendations.
  * YouTube settings: Pause and delete your YouTube Search History and your YouTube Watch History.
  * Ad Settings: Manage your preferences about the ads shown to you on Google and on sites and apps that partner with Google to show ads.

## Exporting, removing & deleting your information

You can export a copy of content in your Google Account if you want to back it
up or use it with a service outside of Google.

Export your data

You can also request to remove content from specific Google services based on
applicable law.

To delete your information, you can:

  * Delete your content from specific Google services
  * Search for and then delete specific items from your account using My Activity
  * Delete specific Google products, including your information associated with those products
  * Delete your entire Google Account

Delete your information

And finally, Inactive Account Manager allows you to give someone else access
to parts of your Google Account in case you’re unexpectedly unable to use your
account.

* * *

There are other ways to control the information Google collects whether or not
you’re signed in to a Google Account, including:

  * Browser settings: For example, you can configure your browser to indicate when Google has set a cookie in your browser. You can also configure your browser to block all cookies from a specific domain or all domains. But remember that our services rely on cookies to function properly, for things like remembering your language preferences.
  * Device-level settings: Your device may have controls that determine what information we collect. For example, you can modify location settings on your Android device.

# Sharing your information

## When you share your information

Many of our services let you share information with other people, and you have
control over how you share. For example, you can share videos on YouTube
publicly or you can decide to keep your videos private. Remember, when you
share information publicly, your content may become accessible through search
engines, including Google Search.

When you’re signed in and interact with some Google services, like leaving
comments on a YouTube video or reviewing an app in Play, your name and photo
appear next to your activity. We may also display this information in ads
depending on your Shared endorsements setting.

## When Google shares your information

We do not share your personal information with companies, organizations, or
individuals outside of Google except in the following cases:

### With your consent

We’ll share personal information outside of Google when we have your consent.
For example, if you use Google Home to make a reservation through a booking
service, we’ll get your permission before sharing your name or phone number
with the restaurant. We’ll ask for your explicit consent to share any
sensitive personal information.

### With domain administrators

If you’re a student or work for an organization that uses Google services
(like G Suite), your domain administrator and resellers who manage your
account will have access to your Google Account. They may be able to:

  * Access and retain information stored in your account, like your email
  * View statistics regarding your account, like how many apps you install
  * Change your account password
  * Suspend or terminate your account access
  * Receive your account information in order to satisfy applicable law, regulation, legal process, or enforceable governmental request
  * Restrict your ability to delete or edit your information or your privacy settings

### For external processing

We provide personal information to our affiliates and other trusted businesses
or persons to process it for us, based on our instructions and in compliance
with our Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security
measures. For example, we use service providers to help us with customer
support.

### For legal reasons

We will share personal information outside of Google if we have a good-faith
belief that access, use, preservation, or disclosure of the information is
reasonably necessary to:

  * Meet any applicable law, regulation, legal process, or enforceable governmental request. We share information about the number and type of requests we receive from governments in our Transparency Report.
  * Enforce applicable Terms of Service, including investigation of potential violations.
  * Detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security, or technical issues.
  * Protect against harm to the rights, property or safety of Google, our users, or the public as required or permitted by law.

We may share non-personally identifiable information publicly and with our
partners — like publishers, advertisers, developers, or rights holders. For
example, we share information publicly to show trends about the general use of
our services. We also allow specific partners to collect information from your
browser or device for advertising and measurement purposes using their own
cookies or similar technologies.

If Google is involved in a merger, acquisition, or sale of assets, we’ll
continue to ensure the confidentiality of your personal information and give
affected users notice before personal information is transferred or becomes
subject to a different privacy policy.

# Keeping your information secure

We build security into our services to protect your information

All Google products are built with strong security features that continuously
protect your information. The insights we gain from maintaining our services
help us detect and automatically block security threats from ever reaching
you. And if we do detect something risky that we think you should know about,
we’ll notify you and help guide you through steps to stay better protected.

We work hard to protect you and Google from unauthorized access, alteration,
disclosure, or destruction of information we hold, including:

  * We use encryption to keep your data private while in transit
  * We offer a range of security features, like Safe Browsing, Security Checkup, and 2 Step Verification to help you protect your account
  * We review our information collection, storage, and processing practices, including physical security measures, to prevent unauthorized access to our systems
  * We restrict access to personal information to Google employees, contractors, and agents who need that information in order to process it. Anyone with this access is subject to strict contractual confidentiality obligations and may be disciplined or terminated if they fail to meet these obligations.

# Exporting & deleting your information

You can export a copy of your information or delete it from your Google
Account at any time

You can export a copy of content in your Google Account if you want to back it
up or use it with a service outside of Google.

Export your data

To delete your information, you can:

  * Delete your content from specific Google services
  * Search for and then delete specific items from your account using My Activity
  * Delete specific Google products, including your information associated with those products
  * Delete your entire Google Account

Delete your information

# Retaining your information

We retain the data we collect for different periods of time depending on what
it is, how we use it, and how you configure your settings:

  * Some data you can delete whenever you like, such as the content you create or upload. You can also delete activity information saved in your account, or choose to have it deleted automatically after a set period of time.
  * Other data is deleted or anonymized automatically after a set period of time, such as advertising data in server logs.
  * We keep some data until you delete your Google Account, such as information about how often you use our services.
  * And some data we retain for longer periods of time when necessary for legitimate business or legal purposes, such as security, fraud and abuse prevention, or financial record-keeping.

When you delete data, we follow a deletion process to make sure that your data
is safely and completely removed from our servers or retained only in
anonymized form. We try to ensure that our services protect information from
accidental or malicious deletion. Because of this, there may be delays between
when you delete something and when copies are deleted from our active and
backup systems.

You can read more about Google’s data retention periods, including how long it
takes us to delete your information.

# Compliance & cooperation with regulators

We regularly review this Privacy Policy and make sure that we process your
information in ways that comply with it.

## Data transfers

We maintain servers around the world and your information may be processed on
servers located outside of the country where you live. Data protection laws
vary among countries, with some providing more protection than others.
Regardless of where your information is processed, we apply the same
protections described in this policy. We also comply with certain legal
frameworks relating to the transfer of data, such as the EU-US and Swiss-US
Privacy Shield Frameworks.

When we receive formal written complaints, we respond by contacting the person
who made the complaint. We work with the appropriate regulatory authorities,
including local data protection authorities, to resolve any complaints
regarding the transfer of your data that we cannot resolve with you directly.

## California requirements

If the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) applies to your information, we
provide these disclosures and the tools described in this policy so you can
exercise your rights to receive information about our data practices, as well
as to request access to and deletion of your information. These tools allow
you to review, update and delete your information, as well as export and
download a copy of it. You can also read more about Google’s data retention
periods, and the process we follow to delete your information.

Google does not sell your personal information. We only share your information
as described in this policy. Google processes your information for the
purposes described in this policy, which include “business purposes” under the
CCPA. These purposes include:

  * Protecting against security threats, abuse, and illegal activity. Google uses and may disclose information to detect, prevent and respond to security incidents, and for protecting against other malicious, deceptive, fraudulent, or illegal activity. For example, to protect our services, Google may receive or disclose information about IP addresses that malicious actors have compromised.
  * Auditing and measurement. Google uses information for analytics and measurement to understand how our services are used, as well as to fulfill obligations to our partners like publishers, advertisers, developers, or rights holders. We may disclose non-personally identifiable information publicly and with these partners, including for auditing purposes.
  * Maintaining our services. Google uses information to ensure our services are working as intended, such as tracking outages or troubleshooting bugs and other issues that you report to us.
  * Research and development. Google uses information to improve our services and to develop new products, features and technologies that benefit our users and the public. For example, we use publicly available information to help train Google’s language models and build features like Google Translate.
  * Use of service providers. Google shares information with service providers to perform services on our behalf, in compliance with our Privacy Policy and other appropriate confidentiality and security measures. For example, we may rely on service providers to help provide customer support.
  * Advertising. Google processes information, including online identifiers and information about your interactions with advertisements, to provide advertising. This keeps many of our services freely available for users. You can control what information we use to show you ads by visiting your ad settings.

Google also uses information to satisfy applicable laws or regulations, and
discloses information in response to legal process or enforceable government
requests, including to law enforcement. We provide information about the
number and type of requests we receive from governments in our Transparency
Report.

If you have additional questions or requests related to your rights under the
CCPA, you can contact Google.

# About this policy

## When this policy applies

This Privacy Policy applies to all of the services offered by Google LLC and
its affiliates, including YouTube, Android, and services offered on third-
party sites, such as advertising services. This Privacy Policy doesn’t apply
to services that have separate privacy policies that do not incorporate this
Privacy Policy.

This Privacy Policy doesn’t apply to:

  * The information practices of other companies and organizations that advertise our services
  * Services offered by other companies or individuals, including products or sites that may include Google services, be displayed to you in search results, or be linked from our services

## Changes to this policy

We change this Privacy Policy from time to time. We will not reduce your
rights under this Privacy Policy without your explicit consent. We always
indicate the date the last changes were published and we offer access to
archived versions for your review. If changes are significant, we’ll provide a
more prominent notice (including, for certain services, email notification of
Privacy Policy changes).

# Related privacy practices

## Specific Google services

The following privacy notices provide additional information about some Google
services:

  * Chrome & the Chrome Operating System
  * Play Books
  * Payments
  * Fiber
  * Google Fi
  * G Suite for Education
  * YouTube Kids
  * Google Accounts Managed with Family Link, for Children under 13 (or applicable age in your country)
  * Voice and Audio Collection from Children’s Features on the Google Assistant

## Other useful resources

The following links highlight useful resources for you to learn more about our
practices and privacy settings.

  * Your Google Account is home to many of the settings you can use to manage your account
  * Privacy Checkup guides you through key privacy settings for your Google Account
  * Google’s safety center helps you learn more about our built-in security, privacy controls, and tools to help set digital ground rules for your family online
  * Privacy & Terms provides more context regarding this Privacy Policy and our Terms of Service
  * Technologies includes more information about:
    * How Google uses cookies
    * Technologies used for Advertising
    * How Google uses pattern recognition to recognize things like faces in photos
    * How Google uses information from sites or apps that use our services

### ads you’ll find most useful

For example, if you watch videos about baking on YouTube, you may see more ads
that relate to baking as you browse the web. We also may use your IP address
to determine your approximate location, so that we can serve you ads for a
nearby pizza delivery service if you search for “pizza.” Learn more about
Google ads and why you may see particular ads.

### the people who matter most to you online

For example, when you type an address in the To, Cc, or Bcc field of an email
you're composing, Gmail will suggest addresses based on the people you contact
most frequently.

### phone number

If you add your phone number to your account, it can be used for different
purposes across Google services, depending on your settings. For example, your
phone number can be used to help you access your account if you forget your
password, help people find and connect with you, and make the ads you see more
relevant to you. Learn more

### payment information

For example, if you add a credit card or other payment method to your Google
Account, you can use it to buy things across our services, like apps in the
Play Store. We may also ask for other information, like a business tax ID, to
help process your payment. In some cases, we may also need to verify your
identity and may ask you for information to do this.

We may also use payment information to verify that you meet age requirements,
if, for example, you enter an incorrect birthday indicating you’re not old
enough to have a Google Account. Learn more

### devices

For example, we can use information from your devices to help you decide which
device you’d like to use to install an app or view a movie you buy from Google
Play. We also use this information to help protect your account.

### Android device with Google apps

Android devices with Google apps include devices sold by Google or one of our
partners and include phones, cameras, vehicles, wearables, and televisions.
These devices use Google Play Services and other pre-installed apps that
include services like Gmail, Maps, your phone’s camera and phone dialer, text-
to-speech conversion, keyboard input, and security features.

### Views and interactions with content and ads

For example, we collect information about views and interactions with ads so
we can provide aggregated reports to advertisers, like telling them whether we
served their ad on a page and whether the ad was likely seen by a viewer. We
may also measure other interactions, such as how you move your mouse over an
ad or if you interact with the page on which the ad appears.

### synced with your Google Account

Your Chrome browsing history is only saved to your account if you’ve enabled
Chrome synchronization with your Google Account. Learn more

### services to make and receive calls or send and receive messages

Examples of these services include:

  * Google Hangouts, for making domestic and international calls
  * Google Voice, for making calls, sending text messages, and managing voicemail
  * Google Fi, for a phone plan

### Sensor data from your device

Your device may have sensors that can be used to better understand your
location and movement. For example, an accelerometer can be used to determine
your speed and a gyroscope to figure out your direction of travel.

### Information about things near your device

If you use Google’s Location services on Android, we can improve the
performance of apps that rely on your location, like Google Maps. If you use
Google’s Location services, your device sends information to Google about its
location, sensors (like accelerometer), and nearby cell towers and Wi-Fi
access points (like MAC address and signal strength). All these things help to
determine your location. You can use your device settings to enable Google
Location services. Learn more

### publicly accessible sources

For example, we may collect information that’s publicly available online or
from other public sources to help train Google’s language models and build
features like Google Translate.

### protect against abuse

For example, information about security threats can help us notify you if we
think your account has been compromised (at which point we can help you take
steps to protect your account).

### advertising and research services on their behalf

For example, advertisers may upload data from their loyalty-card programs so
that they can better understand the performance of their ad campaigns. We only
provide aggregated reports to advertisers that don’t reveal information about
individual people.

### deliver our services

Examples of how we use your information to deliver our services include:

  * We use the IP address assigned to your device to send you the data you requested, such as loading a YouTube video
  * We use unique identifiers stored in cookies on your device to help us authenticate you as the person who should have access to your Google Account
  * Photos and videos you upload to Google Photos are used to help you create albums, animations, and other creations that you can share. Learn more
  * A flight confirmation email you receive may be used to create a “check-in” button that appears in your Gmail
  * When you purchase services or physical goods from us, you may provide us information like your shipping address or delivery instructions. We use this information for things like processing, fulfilling, and delivering your order, and to provide support in connection with the product or service you purchase.

### ensure our services are working as intended

For example, we continuously monitor our systems to look for problems. And if
we find something wrong with a specific feature, reviewing activity
information collected before the problem started allows us to fix things more
quickly.

### make improvements

For example, we use cookies to analyze how people interact with our services.
And that analysis can help us build better products. For example, it may help
us discover that it’s taking people too long to complete a certain task or
that they have trouble finishing steps at all. We can then redesign that
feature and improve the product for everyone.

### customized search results

For example, when you’re signed in to your Google Account and have the Web &
App Activity control enabled, you can get more relevant search results that
are based on your previous searches and activity from other Google services.
You can learn more here. You may also get customized search results even when
you’re signed out. If you don’t want this level of search customization, you
can search and browse privately or turn off signed-out search personalization.

### personalized ads

You may also see personalized ads based on information from the advertiser. If
you shopped on an advertiser's website, for example, they can use that visit
information to show you ads. Learn more

### sensitive categories

When showing you personalized ads, we use topics that we think might be of
interest to you based on your activity. For example, you may see ads for
things like "Cooking and Recipes" or "Air Travel.” We don’t use topics or show
personalized ads based on sensitive categories like race, religion, sexual
orientation, or health. And we require the same from advertisers that use our
services.

### may link information

Google Analytics relies on first-party cookies, which means the cookies are
set by the Google Analytics customer. Using our systems, data generated
through Google Analytics can be linked by the Google Analytics customer and by
Google to third-party cookies that are related to visits to other websites.
For example, an advertiser may want to use its Google Analytics data to create
more relevant ads, or to further analyze its traffic. Learn more

### safety and reliability

Some examples of how we use your information to help keep our services safe
and reliable include:

  * Collecting and analyzing IP addresses and cookie data to protect against automated abuse. This abuse takes many forms, such as sending spam to Gmail users, stealing money from advertisers by fraudulently clicking on ads, or censoring content by launching a Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attack.
  * The “last account activity” feature in Gmail can help you find out if and when someone accessed your email without your knowledge. This feature shows you information about recent activity in Gmail, such as the IP addresses that accessed your mail, the associated location, and the date and time of access. Learn more

### detect abuse

When we detect spam, malware, illegal content, and other forms of abuse on our
systems in violation of our policies, we may disable your account or take
other appropriate action. In certain circumstances, we may also report the
violation to appropriate authorities.

### combine the information we collect

Some examples of how we combine the information we collect include:

  * When you’re signed in to your Google Account and search on Google, you can see search results from the public web, along with relevant information from the content you have in other Google products, like Gmail or Google Calendar. This can include things like the status of your upcoming flights, restaurant, and hotel reservations, or your photos. Learn more
  * If you have communicated with someone via Gmail and want to add them to a Google Doc or an event in Google Calendar, Google makes it easy to do so by autocompleting their email address when you start to type in their name. This feature makes it easier to share things with people you know. Learn more
  * The Google app can use data that you have stored in other Google products to show you personalized content, depending on your settings. For example, if you have searches stored in your Web & App Activity, the Google app can show you news articles and other information about your interests, like sports scores, based your activity. Learn more
  * If you link your Google Account to your Google Home, you can manage your information and get things done through the Google Assistant. For example, you can add events to your Google Calendar or get your schedule for the day, ask for status updates on your upcoming flight, or send information like driving directions to your phone. Learn more

### your activity on other sites and apps

This activity might come from your use of Google services, like from syncing
your account with Chrome or your visits to sites and apps that partner with
Google. Many websites and apps partner with Google to improve their content
and services. For example, a website might use our advertising services (like
AdSense) or analytics tools (like Google Analytics), or it might embed other
content (such as videos from YouTube). These services may share information
about your activity with Google and, depending on your account settings and
the products in use (for instance, when a partner uses Google Analytics in
conjunction with our advertising services), this data may be associated with
your personal information.

Learn more about how Google uses data when you use our partners' sites or
apps.

### partner with Google

There are over 2 million non-Google websites and apps that partner with Google
to show ads. Learn more

### specific Google services

For example, you can delete your blog from Blogger or a Google Site you own
from Google Sites. You can also delete reviews you’ve left on apps, games, and
other content in the Play Store.

### rely on cookies to function properly

For example, we use a cookie called ‘lbcs’ that makes it possible for you to
open many Google Docs in one browser. Blocking this cookie would prevent
Google Docs from working as expected. Learn more

### legal process, or enforceable governmental request

Like other technology and communications companies, Google regularly receives
requests from governments and courts around the world to disclose user data.
Respect for the privacy and security of data you store with Google underpins
our approach to complying with these legal requests. Our legal team reviews
each and every request, regardless of type, and we frequently push back when a
request appears to be overly broad or doesn’t follow the correct process.
Learn more in our Transparency Report.

### show trends

When lots of people start searching for something, it can provide useful
information about particular trends at that time. Google Trends samples Google
web searches to estimate the popularity of searches over a certain period of
time and shares those results publicly in aggregated terms. Learn more

### specific partners

For example, we allow YouTube creators and advertisers to work with
measurement companies to learn about the audience of their YouTube videos or
ads, using cookies or similar technologies. Another example is merchants on
our shopping pages, who use cookies to understand how many different people
see their product listings. Learn more about these partners and how they use
your information.

### servers around the world

For example, we operate data centers located around the world to help keep our
products continuously available for users.

### third parties

For example, we process your information to report use statistics to rights
holders about how their content was used in our services. We may also process
your information if people search for your name and we display search results
for sites containing publicly available information about you.

### appropriate safeguards

For example, we may anonymize data, or encrypt data to ensure it can’t be
linked to other information about you. Learn more

### ensure and improve

For example, we analyze how people interact with advertising to improve the
performance of our ads.

### Customizing our services

For example, we may display a Google Doodle on the Search homepage to
celebrate an event specific to your country.

### Affiliates

An affiliate is an entity that belongs to the Google group of companies,
including the following companies that provide consumer services in the EU:
Google Ireland Limited, Google Commerce Ltd, Google Payment Corp, and Google
Dialer Inc. Learn more about the companies providing business services in the
EU.

### Algorithm

A process or set of rules followed by a computer in performing problem-solving
operations.

### Application data cache

An application data cache is a data repository on a device. It can, for
example, enable a web application to run without an internet connection and
improve the performance of the application by enabling faster loading of
content.

### Browser web storage

Browser web storage enables websites to store data in a browser on a device.
When used in "local storage" mode, it enables data to be stored across
sessions. This makes data retrievable even after a browser has been closed and
reopened. One technology that facilitates web storage is HTML 5.

### Cookies and similar technologies

A cookie is a small file containing a string of characters that is sent to
your computer when you visit a website. When you visit the site again, the
cookie allows that site to recognize your browser. Cookies may store user
preferences and other information. You can configure your browser to refuse
all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. However, some website
features or services may not function properly without cookies. Learn more
about how Google uses cookies and how Google uses data, including cookies,
when you use our partners' sites or apps.

### Device

A device is a computer that can be used to access Google services. For
example, desktop computers, tablets, smart speakers, and smartphones are all
considered devices.

### Non-personally identifiable information

This is information that is recorded about users so that it no longer reflects
or references an individually-identifiable user.

### IP address

Every device connected to the Internet is assigned a number known as an
Internet protocol (IP) address. These numbers are usually assigned in
geographic blocks. An IP address can often be used to identify the location
from which a device is connecting to the Internet.

### Pixel tag

A pixel tag is a type of technology placed on a website or within the body of
an email for the purpose of tracking certain activity, such as views of a
website or when an email is opened. Pixel tags are often used in combination
with cookies.

### Personal information

This is information that you provide to us which personally identifies you,
such as your name, email address, or billing information, or other data that
can be reasonably linked to such information by Google, such as information we
associate with your Google Account.

### Sensitive personal information

This is a particular category of personal information relating to topics such
as confidential medical facts, racial or ethnic origins, political or
religious beliefs, or sexuality.

### Server logs

Like most websites, our servers automatically record the page requests made
when you visit our sites. These “server logs” typically include your web
request, Internet Protocol address, browser type, browser language, the date
and time of your request, and one or more cookies that may uniquely identify
your browser.

A typical log entry for a search for “cars” looks like this:



    123.45.67.89 - 25/Mar/2003 10:15:32 -
    http://www.google.com/search?q=cars -
    Firefox 1.0.7; Windows NT 5.1 -
    740674ce2123e969

  * `123.45.67.89` is the Internet Protocol address assigned to the user by the user’s ISP. Depending on the user’s service, a different address may be assigned to the user by their service provider each time they connect to the Internet.
  * `25/Mar/2003 10:15:32` is the date and time of the query.
  * `http://www.google.com/search?q=cars` is the requested URL, including the search query.
  * `Firefox 1.0.7; Windows NT 5.1` is the browser and operating system being used.
  * `740674ce2123a969` is the unique cookie ID assigned to this particular computer the first time it visited Google. (Cookies can be deleted by users. If the user has deleted the cookie from the computer since the last time they’ve visited Google, then it will be the unique cookie ID assigned to their device the next time they visit Google from that particular device).

### Unique identifiers

A unique identifier is a string of characters that can be used to uniquely
identify a browser, app, or device. Different identifiers vary in how
permanent they are, whether they can be reset by users, and how they can be
accessed.

Unique identifiers can be used for various purposes, including security and
fraud detection, syncing services such as your email inbox, remembering your
preferences, and providing personalized advertising. For example, unique
identifiers stored in cookies help sites display content in your browser in
your preferred language. You can configure your browser to refuse all cookies
or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. Learn more about how Google uses
cookies.

On other platforms besides browsers, unique identifiers are used to recognize
a specific device or app on that device. For example, a unique identifier such
as the Advertising ID is used to provide relevant advertising on Android
devices, and can be managed in your device’s settings. Unique identifiers may
also be incorporated into a device by its manufacturer (sometimes called a
universally unique ID or UUID), such as the IMEI-number of a mobile phone. For
example, a device’s unique identifier can be used to customize our service to
your device or analyze device issues related to our services.

## Data Policy

This policy describes the information we process to support Facebook,
Instagram, Messenger and other products and features offered by Facebook
(Facebook Products or Products). You can find additional tools and information
in the Facebook Settings and Instagram Settings.

## I. What kinds of information do we collect?

To provide the Facebook Products, we must process information about you. The
types of information we collect depend on how you use our Products. You can
learn how to access and delete information we collect by visiting the Facebook
Settings and Instagram Settings.

> Things you and others do and provide.
>
>   * Information and content you provide. We collect the content,
> communications and other information you provide when you use our Products,
> including when you sign up for an account, create or share content, and
> message or communicate with others. This can include information in or about
> the content you provide (like metadata), such as the location of a photo or
> the date a file was created. It can also include what you see through
> features we provide, such as our camera, so we can do things like suggest
> masks and filters that you might like, or give you tips on using camera
> formats. Our systems automatically process content and communications you
> and others provide to analyze context and what's in them for the purposes
> described below. Learn more about how you can control who can see the things
> you share.
>     * Data with special protections: You can choose to provide information
> in your Facebook profile fields or Life Events about your religious views,
> political views, who you are "interested in," or your health. This and other
> information (such as racial or ethnic origin, philosophical beliefs or trade
> union membership) could be subject to special protections under the laws of
> your country.
>
>   * Networks and connections. We collect information about the people,
> Pages, accounts, hashtags and groups you are connected to and how you
> interact with them across our Products, such as people you communicate with
> the most or groups you are part of. We also collect contact information if
> you choose to upload, sync or import it from a device (such as an address
> book or call log or SMS log history), which we use for things like helping
> you and others find people you may know and for the other purposes listed
> below.
>
>   * Your usage. We collect information about how you use our Products, such
> as the types of content you view or engage with; the features you use; the
> actions you take; the people or accounts you interact with; and the time,
> frequency and duration of your activities. For example, we log when you're
> using and have last used our Products, and what posts, videos and other
> content you view on our Products. We also collect information about how you
> use features like our camera.
>
>   * Information about transactions made on our Products. If you use our
> Products for purchases or other financial transactions (such as when you
> make a purchase in a game or make a donation), we collect information about
> the purchase or transaction. This includes payment information, such as your
> credit or debit card number and other card information; other account and
> authentication information; and billing, shipping and contact details.
>
>   * Things others do and information they provide about you. We also receive
> and analyze content, communications and information that other people
> provide when they use our Products. This can include information about you,
> such as when others share or comment on a photo of you, send a message to
> you, or upload, sync or import your contact information.
>
>

>
>
> Device Information
>
> As described below, we collect information from and about the computers,
> phones, connected TVs and other web-connected devices you use that integrate
> with our Products, and we combine this information across different devices
> you use. For example, we use information collected about your use of our
> Products on your phone to better personalize the content (including ads) or
> features you see when you use our Products on another device, such as your
> laptop or tablet, or to measure whether you took an action in response to an
> ad we showed you on your phone on a different device.
>
> Information we obtain from these devices includes:
>
>   * Device attributes: information such as the operating system, hardware
> and software versions, battery level, signal strength, available storage
> space, browser type, app and file names and types, and plugins.
>
>   * Device operations: information about operations and behaviors performed
> on the device, such as whether a window is foregrounded or backgrounded, or
> mouse movements (which can help distinguish humans from bots).
>
>   * Identifiers: unique identifiers, device IDs, and other identifiers, such
> as from games, apps or accounts you use, and Family Device IDs (or other
> identifiers unique to Facebook Company Products associated with the same
> device or account).
>
>   * Device signals: Bluetooth signals, and information about nearby Wi-Fi
> access points, beacons, and cell towers.
>
>   * Data from device settings: information you allow us to receive through
> device settings you turn on, such as access to your GPS location, camera or
> photos.
>
>   * Network and connections: information such as the name of your mobile
> operator or ISP, language, time zone, mobile phone number, IP address,
> connection speed and, in some cases, information about other devices that
> are nearby or on your network, so we can do things like help you stream a
> video from your phone to your TV.
>
>   * Cookie data: data from cookies stored on your device, including cookie
> IDs and settings. Learn more about how we use cookies in the Facebook
> Cookies Policy and Instagram Cookies Policy.
>
>

>
>
>
>
> Information from partners.
>
> Advertisers, app developers, and publishers can send us information through
> Facebook Business Tools they use, including our social plug-ins (such as the
> Like button), Facebook Login, our APIs and SDKs, or the Facebook pixel.
> These partners provide information about your activities off
> Facebook—including information about your device, websites you visit,
> purchases you make, the ads you see, and how you use their services—whether
> or not you have a Facebook account or are logged into Facebook. For example,
> a game developer could use our API to tell us what games you play, or a
> business could tell us about a purchase you made in its store. We also
> receive information about your online and offline actions and purchases from
> third-party data providers who have the rights to provide us with your
> information.
>
> Partners receive your data when you visit or use their services or through
> third parties they work with. We require each of these partners to have
> lawful rights to collect, use and share your data before providing any data
> to us. Learn more about the types of partners we receive data from.
>
> To learn more about how we use cookies in connection with Facebook Business
> Tools, review the Facebook Cookies Policy and Instagram Cookies Policy.
>
>
>
>

## II. How do we use this information?

We use the information we have (subject to choices you make) as described
below and to provide and support the Facebook Products and related services
described in the Facebook Terms and Instagram Terms. Here's how:

> Provide, personalize and improve our Products.
>
> We use the information we have to deliver our Products, including to
> personalize features and content (including your News Feed, Instagram Feed,
> Instagram Stories and ads) and make suggestions for you (such as groups or
> events you may be interested in or topics you may want to follow) on and off
> our Products. To create personalized Products that are unique and relevant
> to you, we use your connections, preferences, interests and activities based
> on the data we collect and learn from you and others (including any data
> with special protections you choose to provide); how you use and interact
> with our Products; and the people, places, or things you're connected to and
> interested in on and off our Products. Learn more about how we use
> information about you to personalize your Facebook and Instagram experience,
> including features, content and recommendations in Facebook Products; you
> can also learn more about how we choose the ads that you see.
>
>   * Information across Facebook Products and devices: We connect information
> about your activities on different Facebook Products and devices to provide
> a more tailored and consistent experience on all Facebook Products you use,
> wherever you use them. For example, we can suggest that you join a group on
> Facebook that includes people you follow on Instagram or communicate with
> using Messenger. We can also make your experience more seamless, for
> example, by automatically filling in your registration information (such as
> your phone number) from one Facebook Product when you sign up for an account
> on a different Product.
>
>   * Location-related information: We use location-related information-such
> as your current location, where you live, the places you like to go, and the
> businesses and people you're near-to provide, personalize and improve our
> Products, including ads, for you and others. Location-related information
> can be based on things like precise device location (if you've allowed us to
> collect it), IP addresses, and information from your and others' use of
> Facebook Products (such as check-ins or events you attend).
>
>   * Product research and development: We use the information we have to
> develop, test and improve our Products, including by conducting surveys and
> research, and testing and troubleshooting new products and features.
>
>   * Face recognition: If you have it turned on, we use face recognition
> technology to recognize you in photos, videos and camera experiences. The
> face-recognition templates we create may constitute data with special
> protections under the laws of your country. Learn more about how we use face
> recognition technology, or control our use of this technology in Facebook
> Settings. If we introduce face-recognition technology to your Instagram
> experience, we will let you know first, and you will have control over
> whether we use this technology for you.
>
>   * Ads and other sponsored content: We use the information we have about
> you-including information about your interests, actions and connections-to
> select and personalize ads, offers and other sponsored content that we show
> you. Learn more about how we select and personalize ads, and your choices
> over the data we use to select ads and other sponsored content for you in
> the Facebook Settings and Instagram Settings.
>
>

>
>
>
>
> Provide measurement, analytics, and other business services.
>
> We use the information we have (including your activity off our Products,
> such as the websites you visit and ads you see) to help advertisers and
> other partners measure the effectiveness and distribution of their ads and
> services, and understand the types of people who use their services and how
> people interact with their websites, apps, and services. Learn how we share
> information with these partners.
>
>
>
>
> Promote safety, integrity and security.
>
> We use the information we have to verify accounts and activity, combat
> harmful conduct, detect and prevent spam and other bad experiences, maintain
> the integrity of our Products, and promote safety and security on and off of
> Facebook Products. For example, we use data we have to investigate
> suspicious activity or violations of our terms or policies, or to detect
> when someone needs help. To learn more, visit the Facebook Security Help
> Center and Instagram Security Tips.
>
>
>
>
> Communicate with you.
>
> We use the information we have to send you marketing communications,
> communicate with you about our Products, and let you know about our policies
> and terms. We also use your information to respond to you when you contact
> us.
>
>
>
>
> Research and innovate for social good.
>
> We use the information we have (including from research partners we
> collaborate with) to conduct and support research and innovation on topics
> of general social welfare, technological advancement, public interest,
> health and well-being. For example, we analyze information we have about
> migration patterns during crises to aid relief efforts. Learn more about our
> research programs.
>
>
>
>

## III. How is this information shared?

Your information is shared with others in the following ways:

Sharing on Facebook Products

> People and accounts you share and communicate with
>
> When you share and communicate using our Products, you choose the audience
> for what you share. For example, when you post on Facebook, you select the
> audience for the post, such as a group, all of your friends, the public, or
> a customized list of people. Similarly, when you use Messenger or Instagram
> to communicate with people or businesses, those people and businesses can
> see the content you send. Your network can also see actions you have taken
> on our Products, including engagement with ads and sponsored content. We
> also let other accounts see who has viewed their Facebook or Instagram
> Stories.
>
> Public information can be seen by anyone, on or off our Products, including
> if they don't have an account. This includes your Instagram username; any
> information you share with a public audience; information in your public
> profile on Facebook; and content you share on a Facebook Page, public
> Instagram account or any other public forum, such as Facebook Marketplace.
> You, other people using Facebook and Instagram, and we can provide access to
> or send public information to anyone on or off our Products, including in
> other Facebook Company Products, in search results, or through tools and
> APIs. Public information can also be seen, accessed, reshared or downloaded
> through third-party services such as search engines, APIs, and offline media
> such as TV, and by apps, websites and other services that integrate with our
> Products.
>
> Learn more about what information is public and how to control your
> visibility on Facebook and Instagram.
>
> Content others share or reshare about you
>
> You should consider who you choose to share with, because people who can see
> your activity on our Products can choose to share it with others on and off
> our Products, including people and businesses outside the audience you
> shared with. For example, when you share a post or send a message to
> specific friends or accounts, they can download, screenshot, or reshare that
> content to others across or off our Products, in person or in virtual
> reality experiences such as Facebook Spaces. Also, when you comment on
> someone else's post or react to their content, your comment or reaction is
> visible to anyone who can see the other person's content, and that person
> can change the audience later.
>
> People can also use our Products to create and share content about you with
> the audience they choose. For example, people can share a photo of you in a
> Story, mention or tag you at a location in a post, or share information
> about you in their posts or messages. If you are uncomfortable with what
> others have shared about you on our Products, you can learn how to report
> the content.
>
> Information about your active status or presence on our Products.
>
> People in your networks can see signals telling them whether you are active
> on our Products, including whether you are currently active on Instagram,
> Messenger or Facebook, or when you last used our Products.
>
> Apps, websites, and third-party integrations on or using our Products.
>
> When you choose to use third-party apps, websites, or other services that
> use, or are integrated with, our Products, they can receive information
> about what you post or share. For example, when you play a game with your
> Facebook friends or use a Facebook Comment or Share button on a website, the
> game developer or website can receive information about your activities in
> the game or receive a comment or link that you share from the website on
> Facebook. Also, when you download or use such third-party services, they can
> access your public profile on Facebook, and any information that you share
> with them. Apps and websites you use may receive your list of Facebook
> friends if you choose to share it with them. But apps and websites you use
> will not be able to receive any other information about your Facebook
> friends from you, or information about any of your Instagram followers
> (although your friends and followers may, of course, choose to share this
> information themselves). Information collected by these third-party services
> is subject to their own terms and policies, not this one.
>
> Devices and operating systems providing native versions of Facebook and
> Instagram (i.e. where we have not developed our own first-party apps) will
> have access to all information you choose to share with them, including
> information your friends share with you, so they can provide our core
> functionality to you.
>
> Note: We are in the process of restricting developers’ data access even
> further to help prevent abuse. For example, we will remove developers'
> access to your Facebook and Instagram data if you haven't used their app in
> 3 months, and we are changing Login, so that in the next version, we will
> reduce the data that an app can request without app review to include only
> name, Instagram username and bio, profile photo and email address.
> Requesting any other data will require our approval.
>
> New owner.
>
> If the ownership or control of all or part of our Products or their assets
> changes, we may transfer your information to the new owner.



Sharing with Third-Party Partners

> We work with third-party partners who help us provide and improve our
> Products or who use Facebook Business Tools to grow their businesses, which
> makes it possible to operate our companies and provide free services to
> people around the world. We don't sell any of your information to anyone,
> and we never will. We also impose strict restrictions on how our partners
> can use and disclose the data we provide. Here are the types of third
> parties we share information with:
>
> Partners who use our analytics services.
>
> We provide aggregated statistics and insights that help people and
> businesses understand how people are engaging with their posts, listings,
> Pages, videos and other content on and off the Facebook Products. For
> example, Page admins and Instagram business profiles receive information
> about the number of people or accounts who viewed, reacted to, or commented
> on their posts, as well as aggregate demographic and other information that
> helps them understand interactions with their Page or account.
>
> Advertisers.
>
> We provide advertisers with reports about the kinds of people seeing their
> ads and how their ads are performing, but we don't share information that
> personally identifies you (information such as your name or email address
> that by itself can be used to contact you or identifies who you are) unless
> you give us permission. For example, we provide general demographic and
> interest information to advertisers (for example, that an ad was seen by a
> woman between the ages of 25 and 34 who lives in Madrid and likes software
> engineering) to help them better understand their audience. We also confirm
> which Facebook ads led you to make a purchase or take an action with an
> advertiser.
>
> Measurement partners.
>
> We share information about you with companies that aggregate it to provide
> analytics and measurement reports to our partners.
>
> Partners offering goods and services in our Products.
>
> When you subscribe to receive premium content, or buy something from a
> seller in our Products, the content creator or seller can receive your
> public information and other information you share with them, as well as the
> information needed to complete the transaction, including shipping and
> contact details.
>
> Vendors and service providers.
>
> We provide information and content to vendors and service providers who
> support our business, such as by providing technical infrastructure
> services, analyzing how our Products are used, providing customer service,
> facilitating payments or conducting surveys.
>
> Researchers and academics.
>
> We also provide information and content to research partners and academics
> to conduct research that advances scholarship and innovation that support
> our business or mission, and enhances discovery and innovation on topics of
> general social welfare, technological advancement, public interest, health
> and well-being.
>
> Law enforcement or legal requests.
>
> We share information with law enforcement or in response to legal requests
> in the circumstances outlined below.
>
> Learn more about how you can control the information about you that you or
> others share with third-party partners in the Facebook Settings and
> Instagram Settings.
>
>
>
>

## IV. How do the Facebook Companies work together?

Facebook and Instagram share infrastructure, systems and technology with other
Facebook Companies (which include WhatsApp and Oculus) to provide an
innovative, relevant, consistent and safe experience across all Facebook
Company Products you use. We also process information about you across the
Facebook Companies for these purposes, as permitted by applicable law and in
accordance with their terms and policies. For example, we process information
from WhatsApp about accounts sending spam on its service so we can take
appropriate action against those accounts on Facebook, Instagram or Messenger.
We also work to understand how people use and interact with Facebook Company
Products, such as understanding the number of unique users on different
Facebook Company Products.




## V. How can I manage or delete information about me?

We provide you with the ability to access, rectify, port and erase your data.
Learn more in your Facebook Settings and Instagram Settings.

We store data until it is no longer necessary to provide our services and
Facebook Products, or until your account is deleted - whichever comes first.
This is a case-by-case determination that depends on things like the nature of
the data, why it is collected and processed, and relevant legal or operational
retention needs. For example, when you search for something on Facebook, you
can access and delete that query from within your search history at any time,
but the log of that search is deleted after 6 months. If you submit a copy of
your government-issued ID for account verification purposes, we delete that
copy 30 days after submission. Learn more about deletion of content you have
shared and cookie data obtained through social plugins.

When you delete your account, we delete things you have posted, such as your
photos and status updates, and you won't be able to recover that information
later. Information that others have shared about you isn't part of your
account and won't be deleted. If you don't want to delete your account but
want to temporarily stop using the Products, you can deactivate your account
instead. To delete your account at any time, please visit the Facebook
Settings and Instagram Settings.




## VI. How do we respond to legal requests or prevent harm?

We access, preserve and share your information with regulators, law
enforcement or others:

  * In response to a legal request (like a search warrant, court order or subpoena) if we have a good faith belief that the law requires us to do so. This may include responding to legal requests from jurisdictions outside of the United States when we have a good-faith belief that the response is required by law in that jurisdiction, affects users in that jurisdiction, and is consistent with internationally recognized standards.

  * When we have a good-faith belief it is necessary to: detect, prevent and address fraud, unauthorized use of the Products, violations of our terms or policies, or other harmful or illegal activity; to protect ourselves (including our rights, property or Products), you or others, including as part of investigations or regulatory inquiries; or to prevent death or imminent bodily harm. For example, if relevant, we provide information to and receive information from third-party partners about the reliability of your account to prevent fraud, abuse and other harmful activity on and off our Products.

Information we receive about you (including financial transaction data related
to purchases made with Facebook) can be accessed and preserved for an extended
period when it is the subject of a legal request or obligation, governmental
investigation, or investigations of possible violations of our terms or
policies, or otherwise to prevent harm. We also retain information from
accounts disabled for terms violations for at least a year to prevent repeat
abuse or other term violations.




## VII. How do we operate and transfer data as part of our global services?

We share information globally, both internally within the Facebook Companies,
and externally with our partners and with those you connect and share with
around the world in accordance with this policy. Your information may, for
example, be transferred or transmitted to, or stored and processed in the
United States or other countries outside of where you live for the purposes as
described in this policy. These data transfers are necessary to provide the
services set forth in the Facebook Terms and Instagram Terms and to globally
operate and provide our Products to you. We utilize standard contract clauses,
rely on the European Commission's adequacy decisions about certain countries,
as applicable, and obtain your consent for these data transfers to the United
States and other countries.




## VIII. How will we notify you of changes to this policy?

We'll notify you before we make changes to this policy and give you the
opportunity to review the revised policy before you choose to continue using
our Products.




## IX. How to contact Facebook with questions

You can learn more about how privacy works on Facebook and on Instagram. If
you have questions about this policy, you can contact us as described below.
We may resolve disputes you have with us in connection with our privacy
policies and practices through TrustArc. You can contact TrustArc through its
website.

You can contact us online or by mail at:

Facebook, Inc.
ATTN: Privacy Operations
1601 Willow Road
Menlo Park, CA 94025



## Privacy Notice for California Residents

If you are a California resident, you can learn more about your consumer
privacy rights by reviewing the California Privacy Notice.


  * Fix a problem

Known IssuesTroubleshoot problems playing videosTroubleshoot account issuesFix
upload problemsFix YouTube Premium membership issuesGet help with the YouTube
Partner Program

  * Watch videos

Find videos to watchChange video settingsWatch videos on different
devicesComment, subscribe, & connect with creatorsSave or share videos &
playlistsTroubleshoot problems playing videosPurchase and watch movies and TV
shows

  * Manage your account & settings

Sign up and manage your accountManage account settingsManage privacy
settingsManage accessibility settingsTroubleshoot account issues

  * Join & manage YouTube Premium

Learn about YouTube Premium benefitsManage Premium membershipManage Premium
billingGet a YouTube Premium family planSign up for a student Premium
membershipFix YouTube Premium membership issues

  * Create & grow your channel

Upload videosEdit videos & video settingsCustomize & manage your
channelAnalyze performance with analyticsTranslate videos & captionsManage
your community & commentsLive stream on YouTube

  * Monetize with the YouTube Partner Program

YouTube Partner Program BasicsEarn money on YouTubeGet help with the YouTube
Partner ProgramUnderstand ad policies for advertisersYouTube for Content
Managers

  * Policy, safety, and copyright

YouTube policiesReporting and enforcementPrivacy and safety centerCopyright
and rights management

  * YouTube policies
  * Spam, deceptive practices & scams policies

# Spam, deceptive practices & scams policies



YouTube doesn’t allow spam, scams, or other deceptive practices that take
advantage of the YouTube community. We also don’t allow content where the main
purpose is to trick others into leaving YouTube for another site.

If you find content that violates this policy, please report it. Instructions
for reporting violations of our Community Guidelines are available here. If
you find many videos, comments, or a creator's entire channel that you wish to
report, visit our reporting tool.

## What these policies mean for you

#### If you're posting content

Don’t post content on YouTube if it fits any of the descriptions noted below.

  * Video Spam: Content that is excessively posted, repetitive, or untargeted and does one or more of the following:
    * Promises viewers they'll see something but instead directs them off site.
    * Gets clicks, views, or traffic off YouTube by promising viewers that they’ll make money fast.
    * Sends audiences to sites that spread malware, try to gather personal information, or other sites that have a negative impact.
  * Misleading Metadata or Thumbnails: Using the title, thumbnails, description, or tags to trick users into believing the content is something it is not.
  * Scams: Content offering cash gifts, “get rich quick” schemes, or pyramid schemes (sending money without a tangible product in a pyramid structure).
  * Voter Suppression: Content aiming to mislead voters about the time, place, means or eligibility requirements for voting.
  * Census engagement: Content aiming to mislead participants about the time, means or eligibility requirements for participating in a census.

  * Incentivization Spam: Content that sells engagement metrics such as views, likes, comments, or any other metric on YouTube. This also includes content where the only purpose is to boost subscribers, views, or other metrics (e.g. offering to subscribe to another creator’s channel solely in exchange for them subscribing to your channel, also known as "Sub4Sub" content).
  * Comments Spam: Comments where the sole purpose is to gather personal information from viewers, misleadingly drive viewers off YouTube, or perform any of the prohibited behaviors noted above.
  * Repetitive comments: Leaving large amounts of identical, untargeted or repetitive comments.
  * Live Stream Abuse: Live streams intended to stream content that belongs to somebody else and are not corrected following repeated warnings of possible abuse. Live streams should be actively monitored by the channel owner, and any potential issues should be corrected in a timely manner.

This policy applies to videos, video descriptions, comments, live streams, and
any other YouTube product or feature. Keep in mind that this isn't a complete
list.

Note: You're allowed to encourage viewers to subscribe, hit the like button,
share, or leave a comment.

## Examples

Here are some examples of content that’s not allowed on YouTube.

  * Telling viewers they can vote through fake methods like texting their vote to a particular number
  * Giving made up voter eligibility requirements like saying that a particular election is only open to voters over 50 years old
  * Deliberately telling viewers an incorrect election date

## More examples

## Video Spam

The following types of content are not allowed on YouTube. This isn't a
complete list.

  * Content that promises viewers they'll watch something but instead directs them off site to view.
  * Posting the same content repeatedly across one or more channels.
  * Massively uploading content that you scraped from other creators.
  * Trying to get viewers to install malware, or directing them to sites that might compromise their privacy.
  * Autogenerated content that computers post quickly without regard for quality or viewer experience.
  * Promising money, products, software, or gaming perks for free if viewers install software, download an app, or perform other tasks.
  * Massively posting affiliate content in dedicated accounts.

## Misleading metadata or thumbnails

The following types of content are not allowed on YouTube. This isn't a
complete list.

  * Placing excessive tags in the video description (“tag stuffing”) rather than placing them as tags upon upload.
  * A thumbnail with a picture of a popular celebrity that has nothing to do with the content.

## Scams

The following types of content are not allowed on YouTube. This isn't a
complete list.

  * Making exaggerated promises, such as claims that viewers can get rich fast or that a miracle treatment can cure chronic illnesses such as cancer.
  * Promoting cash gifting or other pyramid schemes.
  * Accounts dedicated to cash gifting schemes.
  * Videos that promise "You'll make $50,000 tomorrow with this plan!"

## Incentivization Spam

The following types of content are not allowed on YouTube. This isn't a
complete list.

  * Videos where the purpose is to encourage viewers to subscribe.
  * "Subs 4 Subs" videos.
  * Videos that offer "likes" for sale.
  * A video that offers to give the channel to the 100,000th subscriber without any other content.

## Comments Spam

The following types of content are not allowed on YouTube. This isn't a
complete list.

  * Comments about surveys or giveaways that promote pyramid schemes.
  * "Pay Per Click" referral links in comments.
  * Comments that falsely claim to offer full video content. This could be content like movies, TV shows, or concerts.
  * Posting links to malware or phishing site in comments: "omg just got tons of  B∪cks from here! - [xyz phishing site].com"
  * Comments with links to counterfeit stores.
  * "Hey guys check out my channel/video here!!” when the channel/video has nothing to do with the video it was posted in.
  * Posting the same comment repeatedly with a link to your channel.

## Live Stream Abuse

The following types of content are not allowed on YouTube. This isn't a
complete list.

  * Using your phone to stream a television show
  * Using 3rd party software to livestream songs from an album

Remember these are just some examples, and don't post content if you think it
might violate this policy.

## What happens when content violates this policy

If your content violates this policy, we’ll remove the content and send you an
email to let you know. If this is your first time violating our Community
Guidelines, you’ll get a warning with no penalty to your channel. If it’s not,
we’ll issue a strike against your channel. If you get 3 strikes, your channel
will be terminated. You can learn more about our strikes system here.

###   Visit Creator Academy for more

Would you rather learn about this policy through videos and quizzes? Check out
our Creator Academy course.


# Nudity and sexual content policies

Explicit content meant to be sexually gratifying (like pornography) is not
allowed on YouTube. Videos containing fetish content will be removed or age-
restricted. In most cases, violent, graphic, or humiliating fetishes are not
allowed on YouTube.

If you find content that violates this policy, please report it. Instructions
for reporting violations of our Community Guidelines are available here. If
you find many videos, comments, or a creator's entire channel that you wish to
report, visit our reporting tool.

Sexually explicit content featuring minors and content that sexually exploits
minors is not allowed on YouTube. We report content containing child sexual
abuse imagery to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, who
work with global law enforcement agencies.

## What this means for you

#### If you're posting content

Don’t post content on YouTube if it has any of the items below.

  * Depiction of genitals, breasts, or buttocks (clothed or unclothed) for the purpose of sexual gratification
  * Pornography depicting sexual acts, genitals, or fetishes for the purpose of sexual gratification

## Other types of content that violate this policy

  * Masturbation or fondling of genitals, breasts, or buttocks
  * Using or displaying sex toys to provide viewers with sexual gratification
  * Celebrity wardrobe accidents or nude photo leaks
  * Violent, graphic, or humiliating fetish content where the purpose is sexual gratification
  * Nudity or partial nudity for the purpose of sexual gratification
  * Explicit or implied depiction of sex acts for the purpose of sexual gratification
  * Animated sex acts, pornography, or fetish content
  * Non-consensual sex acts or unwanted sexualization
  * Bestiality or promotion of bestiality
  * Incest or promotion of incest
  * Aggregating content for the purpose of sexual gratification
  * Any sexual content involving minors
  * Please note this is not a complete list.

## Age-restricted content

We may age-restrict content if it includes nudity or other sexual content but
doesn’t depict anything described above. We consider the following when
determining whether to age-restrict or remove content.

  * Whether breasts, buttocks or genitals (clothed or unclothed) are the focal point of the video
  * Whether the subject is depicted in a pose that is intended to sexually arouse the viewer
  * Whether the language used in the video is graphic or lewd
  * Whether the subject's actions in the video invite sexual activity, such as by kissing, provocative dancing, or fondling
  * Whether the clothing would be generally unacceptable in public contexts, such as lingerie
  * Whether sexual imagery or audio has been blurred, masked, or obscured
  * Whether sexual imagery or audio is fleeting or prolonged in the content

Please note this is not a complete list.

This policy applies to videos, video descriptions, comments, live streams, and
any other YouTube product or feature.  Please remember these are just some
examples, and don't post content if you think it might violate this policy.

## Educational content

We allow nudity when the primary purpose is educational, documentary,
scientific, or artistic, and it isn’t gratuitous. For example, a documentary
on breast cancer would be appropriate, but posting clips out of context to
sexually gratify from the same documentary is not. Out of context nudity in
indigenous communities, during medical procedures, during childbirth, during
artistic performances, or during breastfeeding may not meet our documentary
exception. Remember that providing context in the content, title, and
description will help us and your viewers determine the primary purpose of the
video.

## Examples

Here are some examples of content that’s not allowed on YouTube.

  * Clips extracted from non-pornographic films, shows, or other content in order to isolate sexual content
  * Groping, pantsing, public masturbation, upskirting, voyeurism, predatory exhibitionism or any other content that depicts someone in a sexualized manner without their consent

Please remember these are just some examples, and don't post content if you
think it might violate this policy.

## More examples

  * Playlists that aggregate content containing nudity or sexual themes for the purpose of sexual gratification
  * Provocative dancing that is focused on the dancer’s genitals, buttocks, or breasts
  * Content that sexualizes rape in any form, or content that aggregates clips of dramatized rape scenes
  * Audio or textual depictions of sexual acts for the purpose of sexual gratification
  * Content showing bodily fluids or excretion, such as urine, for the purpose of sexual gratification
  * Content using otherwise everyday objects or scenarios, such as injections or eating, for the purpose of sexual gratification
  * Video game content which has been developed or modified (“modded”) for sexual gratification, or focuses on themes of unwanted sexualization

## What happens when content violates this policy

If your content violates this policy, we’ll remove the content and send you an
email to let you know. If this is your first time violating our Community
Guidelines, you’ll get a warning with no penalty to your channel. If it’s not,
we’ll issue a strike against your channel. If you get 3 strikes, your channel
will be terminated. You can learn more about our strikes system here.

###   Visit Creator Academy for more

Would you rather learn about our Community Guidelines through videos and
quizzes? Check out our new Creator Academy course.


# Hate speech policy

While we’ve always had policies that prohibited hate speech on YouTube, on
June 5, we announced some changes to our hate speech policies. You can learn
more about those changes here. The below policy has been updated with those
changes.

Hate speech is not allowed on YouTube. We remove content promoting violence or
hatred against individuals or groups based on any of the following attributes:

  * Age
  * Caste
  * Disability
  * Ethnicity
  * Gender Identity and Expression
  * Nationality
  * Race
  * Immigration Status
  * Religion
  * Sex/Gender
  * Sexual Orientation
  * Victims of a major violent event and their kin
  * Veteran Status

If you find content that violates this policy, please report it. Instructions
for reporting violations of our Community Guidelines are available here. If
you find many videos, comments, or a creator's entire channel that you wish to
report, visit our reporting tool.

## What this means for you

#### If you're posting content

Don’t post content on YouTube if the purpose of that content is to do one or
more of the following.

  * Encourage violence against individuals or groups based on any of the attributes noted above. We don’t allow threats on YouTube, and we treat implied calls for violence as real threats. You can learn more about our policies on threats and harassment.
  * Incite hatred against individuals or groups based on any of the attributes noted above.

## Other types of content that violates this policy

  * Dehumanizing individuals or groups by calling them subhuman, comparing them to animals, insects, pests, disease, or any other non-human entity.
  * Praise or glorify violence against individuals or groups based on the attributes noted above.
  * Use of racial, religious or other slurs and stereotypes that incite or promote hatred based on any of the attributes noted above. This can take the form of speech, text, or imagery promoting these stereotypes or treating them as factual.
  * Claim that individuals or groups are physically or mentally inferior, deficient, or diseased based on any of the attributes noted above. This includes statements that one group is less than another, calling them less intelligent, less capable, or damaged.
  * Allege the superiority of a group over those with any of the attributes noted above to justify violence, discrimination, segregation, or exclusion.
  * Conspiracy theories ascribing evil, corrupt, or malicious intent to individuals or groups based on any of the attributes noted above.
  * Call for the subjugation or domination over individuals or groups based on any of the attributes noted above.
  * Deny that a well-documented, violent event took place.
  * Attacks on a person’s emotional, romantic and/or sexual attraction to another person.
  * Content containing hateful supremacist propaganda including the recruitment of new members or requests for financial support for their ideology.
  * Music videos promoting hateful supremacism in the lyrics, metadata, or imagery.

## Educational content

We may allow content that includes hate speech if the primary purpose is
educational, documentary, scientific, or artistic in nature. This is not a
free pass to promote hate speech. Examples include:

  * A documentary about a hate group: Educational content that isn’t supporting the group or promoting ideas would be allowed. A documentary promoting violence or hatred wouldn’t be allowed.
  * A documentary about the scientific study of humans: A documentary about how theories have changed over time, even if it includes theories about the inferiority or superiority of specific groups, would be allowed because it’s educational. We won’t allow a documentary claiming there is scientific evidence today that an individual or group is inferior or subhuman.
  * Historical footage of an event, like WWII, that does not promote violence or hatred.

This policy applies to videos, video descriptions, comments, live streams, and
any other YouTube product or feature. For educational content that includes
hate speech, this context must appear in the images or audio of the video
itself. Providing it in the title or description is insufficient.

## Examples

Here are examples of hate speech not allowed on YouTube.

  * “I’m glad this [violent event] happened. They got what they deserved [referring to persons with the attributes noted above].”
  * “[Person with attributes noted above] are dogs” or “[person with attributes noted above] are like animals.”

## More examples

  * “Get out there and punch a [person with attributes noted above].”
  * “Everyone in [groups with attributes noted above] are all criminals and thugs.”
  * “[Person with attributes noted above] is scum of the earth.”
  * “[People with attributes noted above] are a disease.”
  * “[People with attributes noted above] are less intelligent than us because their brains are smaller.”
  * “Our existence is threatened by [group with any of the attributes noted above], so we should drive them out at every chance we get.”
  * “[Group with any of the attributes noted above] has an agenda to run the world and get rid of us.”
  * “[Attribute noted above] is just a form of mental illness that needs to be cured.”
  * “[Person with any of the  attributes noted above] shouldn't be educated in schools because they shouldn't be educated at all.”
  * “All of the so-called victims of this violent event are actors. No one was hurt, and this is just a false flag.”
  * Shouting “Disabled people are pests!” at someone even if the person doesn’t have a disability.
  * Disparaging someone for “pretending” when showing their Gender Identity or Gender Expression.
  * “All of the ‘so-called victims’ of this are actors. No one was hurt.”
  * Shouting “[people with attributes noted above] are pests!” at someone regardless of whether the person does or does not have the alleged attributes
  * Video game content which has been developed or modified (“modded”) to promote violence or hatred against a group with any of the attributes noted above.

Please remember these are just some examples, and don't post content if you
think it might violate this policy.

## What happens when content violates this policy

If your content violates this policy, we’ll remove the content and send you an
email to let you know. If this is your first time violating our Community
Guidelines, you’ll get a warning with no penalty to your channel. If it’s not,
we’ll issue a strike against your channel. If you get 3 strikes, your channel
will be terminated. You can learn more about our strikes system here.

If we think your content comes close to hate speech, we may limit YouTube
features available for that content. You can learn more about limited features
here.

  * The importance of context
  * Recent transparency report
  * Limited features for certain videos

###   Visit Creator Academy for more

Would you rather learn about our Community Guidelines through videos and
quizzes? Check out our Creator Academy course.



# Protecting your identity

We want you to feel safe when you're on YouTube, which is why we encourage you
to let us know if videos or comments on the site violate your privacy or sense
of safety.

If someone has posted your personal information or uploaded a video of you
without your consent, you should contact the uploader and ask them to remove
the content. If you can’t reach an agreement with the uploader, or if you're
uncomfortable contacting them, you can request to have the content removed
based on our Privacy Guidelines.

## Criteria for removing content

Our Privacy Guidelines provide a detailed explanation of our privacy complaint
process and the factors we take into account when evaluating privacy claims.

For content to be considered for removal, an individual must be uniquely
identifiable. If you want to use the privacy complaint process, make sure that
you are uniquely identifiable within the content you seek to report before
proceeding. When assessing if an individual is uniquely identifiable, we
consider the following factors:

  * Image or voice
  * Full name
  * Financial information
  * Contact information
  * Other personally identifiable information

When you report a privacy complaint, we consider public interest,
newsworthiness, and consent as factors in our final decision.

## Tips on how to protect your privacy on YouTube:

  * Think carefully before you post personal information. This includes things like the town you live in, where you go to school, and your home address.
  * Protect your account data and don’t share your password with others. YouTube employees will never ask you for your password. Don’t be fooled if someone contacts you pretending to be from YouTube.
  * Get permission first. As a rule of thumb, you should get permission before filming other people or posting their personal information.
  * Visit our Privacy and Safety Settings page for a list of tools that you can use to manage your content and experience on the site.
  * Check out best practices for keeping your Google account secure.
  * Stronger security for Google account: Keep your accounts secured through 2-step verification.


# Privacy Statement

This Privacy Statement explains our practices, including your choices,
regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of certain information,
including your personal information, by the Netflix family of companies
("Netflix") in connection with the Netflix service.

To see our California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Privacy Notice, please click
on the link, go to https://help.netflix.com/legal/privacy#ccpa or simply
scroll down.

### Contacting Us

If you have general questions about your account or how to contact customer
service for assistance, please visit our online help center at
https://help.netflix.com. For questions specifically about this Privacy
Statement, or our use of your personal information, cookies or similar
technologies, please contact our Data Protection Officer/Privacy Office by
email at privacy@netflix.com.

The data controller of your personal information is Netflix, Inc. Please note
that if you contact us to assist you, for your safety and ours we may need to
authenticate your identity before fulfilling your request.

### Collection of Information

We receive and store information about you such as:

  * Information you provide to us: We collect information you provide to us which includes:

    * your name, email address, address or postal code, payment method(s), and telephone number. We collect this information in a number of ways, including when you enter it while using our service, interact with our customer service, or participate in surveys or marketing promotions;

    * information when you choose to provide ratings, taste preferences, account settings (including preferences set in the "Account" section of our website), or otherwise provide information to us through our service or elsewhere.

  * Information we collect automatically: We collect information about you and your use of our service, your interactions with us and our advertising, as well as information regarding your computer or other Netflix capable devices you might use to access our service (such as gaming systems, smart TVs, mobile devices, set top boxes, and other streaming media devices). This information includes:

    * your activity on the Netflix service, such as title selections, shows you have watched, and search queries;

    * your interactions with our emails and texts, and with our messages through push and online messaging channels;

    * details of your interactions with our customer service, such as the date, time and reason for contacting us, transcripts of any chat conversations, and if you call us, your phone number and call recordings;

    * device IDs or other unique identifiers, including for devices that are Netflix capable on your Wi-Fi network;

    * resettable device identifiers (also known as advertising identifiers), such as those on mobile devices, tablets, and streaming media devices that include such identifiers (see the "Cookies and Internet Advertising" section below for more information);

    * device and software characteristics (such as type and configuration), connection information, statistics on page views, referring source (for example, referral URLs), IP address (which may tell us your general location), browser and standard web server log information;

    * information collected via the use of cookies, web beacons and other technologies, including ad data (such as information on the availability and delivery of ads, the site URL, as well as the date and time). (See our "Cookies and Internet Advertising" section for more details.)

  * Information from partners:  We collect information from other companies with whom you have a relationship (“Partners”). These Partners might include (depending on what services you use): your TV or internet service provider, or other streaming media device providers who make our service available on their device; mobile phone carriers or other companies who provide services to you and collect payment for the Netflix service for distribution to us or provide pre-paid promotions for the Netflix service; and voice assistant platform providers who enable interaction with our service through voice commands. The information Partners provide us varies depending on the nature of the Partner services, and may include:

    * search queries and commands applicable to Netflix that you make through Partner devices or voice assistant platforms;

    * service activation information such as your email address or other contact information;

    * IP addresses, device IDs or other unique identifiers, as well as associated pre-paid promotion, billing and user interface information, that support user authentication, the Netflix service registration experience, Partner payment processing, and the presentation of Netflix content to you through portions of the Partner user interface.

  * Information from other sources: We also obtain information from other sources. We protect this information according to the practices described in this Privacy Statement, plus any additional restrictions imposed by the source of the data. These sources vary over time, but could include:

    * service providers that help us determine a location based on your IP address in order to customize our service and for other uses consistent with this Privacy Statement;

    * payment service providers who provide us with payment information, or updates to that information, based on their relationship with you;

    * online and offline data providers, from which we obtain demographic, interest based and online advertising related data;

    * publicly-available sources such as publicly available posts on social media platforms and information available through public databases associating IP addresses with internet service providers (ISPs).

### Use of Information

We use information to provide, analyze, administer, enhance and personalize
our services and marketing efforts, to manage member referrals, to process
your registration, your orders and your payments, and to communicate with you
on these and other topics. For example, we use such information to:

  * determine your general geographic location, provide localized content, provide you with customized and personalized viewing recommendations for movies and TV shows we think will be of interest to you, determine your ISP to support network troubleshooting for you (we also use aggregated ISP information for operational and business purposes), and help us quickly and efficiently respond to inquiries and requests;

  * coordinate with Partners on making the Netflix service available to members and providing information to non members about the availability of the Netflix service, based on the specific relationship you have with the Partner;

  * prevent, detect and investigate potentially prohibited or illegal activities, including fraud, and to enforce our terms (such as determining whether and for which Netflix signup offers you are eligible);

  * analyze and understand our audience, improve our service (including our user interface experiences) and optimize content selection, recommendation algorithms and delivery;

  * communicate with you concerning our service so that we can send you news about Netflix, details about new features and content available on Netflix, special offers, promotional announcements, consumer surveys, and to assist you with operational requests such as password reset requests. These communications may be by various methods, such as email, push notifications, text message, online messaging channels, and matched identifier communications (described below). Please see the "Your Choices" section of this Privacy Statement to learn how to set or change your communications preferences.

### Disclosure of Information

We disclose your information for certain purposes and to third parties, as
described below:

  * The Netflix family of companies: We share your information among the Netflix family of companies (https://help.netflix.com/support/2101) as needed for: data processing and storage; providing you with access to our services; providing customer support; making decisions about service improvements; content development; and for other purposes described in the Use of Information section of this Privacy Statement.

  * Service Providers: We use other companies, agents or contractors ("Service Providers") to perform services on our behalf or to assist us with the provision of services to you. For example, we engage Service Providers to provide marketing, advertising, communications, infrastructure and IT services, to personalize and optimize our service, to process credit card transactions or other payment methods, to provide customer service, to collect debts, to analyze and enhance data (including data about users' interactions with our service), and to process and administer consumer surveys. In the course of providing such services, these Service Providers may have access to your personal or other information. We do not authorize them to use or disclose your personal information except in connection with providing their services (which includes maintaining and improving their services).

  * Partners: As described above, you may have a relationship with one or more of our Partners, in which case we may share certain information with them in order to coordinate with them on providing the Netflix service to members and providing information about the availability of the Netflix service. For example, depending on what Partner services you use, we may share information:

    * in order to facilitate Partner pre-paid promotions or collection of payment for the Netflix service for distribution to us;

    * with Partners who operate voice assistant platforms that allow you to interact with our service using voice commands;

    * so that content and features available in the Netflix service can be suggested to you in the Partner’s user interface. For members, these suggestions are part of the Netflix service and may include customized and personalized viewing recommendations.

  * Promotional offers: We may offer joint promotions or programs that, in order for your participation, will require us to share your information with third parties. In fulfilling these types of promotions, we may share your name and other information in connection with fulfilling the incentive. Please note that these third parties are responsible for their own privacy practices.

  * Protection of Netflix and others: Netflix and its Service Providers may disclose and otherwise use your personal and other information where we or they reasonably believe such disclosure is needed to (a) satisfy any applicable law, regulation, legal process, or governmental request, (b) enforce applicable terms of use, including investigation of potential violations thereof, (c) detect, prevent, or otherwise address illegal or suspected illegal activities (including payment fraud), security or technical issues, or (d) protect against harm to the rights, property or safety of Netflix, its users or the public, as required or permitted by law.

  * Business transfers: In connection with any reorganization, restructuring, merger or sale, or other transfer of assets, we will transfer information, including personal information, provided that the receiving party agrees to respect your personal information in a manner that is consistent with our Privacy Statement.

Whenever in the course of sharing information we transfer personal information
to countries outside of the European Economic Area and other regions with
comprehensive data protection laws, we will ensure that the information is
transferred in accordance with this Privacy Statement and as permitted by the
applicable laws on data protection.

You may also choose to disclose your information in the following ways:

  * certain portions of our service may contain a tool which gives you the option to share information by email, text message and social or other sharing applications, using the clients and applications on your smart device;

  * social plugins and similar technologies allow you to share information.

Social plugins and social applications are operated by the social networks
themselves, and are subject to their terms of use and privacy policies.

### Access to Account and Profiles

  * “Remember me” function: For ease of access to your account, you can use the "Remember me on this device" function when you log in to the website. This function uses technology that enables us to provide direct account access and to help administer the Netflix service without requiring reentry of any password or other user identification when your browser revisits the service.

  * Giving others access to your account: If you share or otherwise allow others to have access to your account, they will be able to see shows you have watched, ratings, and account information (including your email address or other information in the "Account" area of our website). This remains true even if you use our profiles feature. You might have the option to use seamless account login through the Netflix mobile app, which enables login to the Netflix app on smart TVs, set top boxes, and other streaming media devices on the Wi-Fi network to which you are connected. If you use that feature, those devices will remain signed into your account unless you later log out of those devices.

  * Profiles: Profiles allow users to have a distinct, personalized Netflix experience, built around the movies and shows of interest to them, as well as separate watch histories. Please note that profiles are available to everyone who uses your Netflix account, so that anyone with access to your Netflix account can navigate to and use, edit or delete profiles. You should explain this to others with access to your account, and if you do not wish them to use or change your profile, be sure to let them know. Profile users may be offered the opportunity to add an email address, phone number or other information to the profile and will be provided with notice of collection and use at the time such information is requested (the Profile Privacy Notice applies (https://help.netflix.com/support/103458)).

  * Removing device access to your Netflix account: To remove access to your Netflix account from your devices: (a) visit the "Account" section of our website, choose "Sign out of all devices," and follow the instructions to deactivate your devices (note, deactivation may not occur immediately) or (b) delete your Netflix settings from your device (steps vary by device and the option is not available on all devices). Where possible, users of public or shared devices should log out at the completion of each visit. If you sell or return a computer or Netflix ready device, you should log out and deactivate the device before doing so. If you do not maintain the security of your password or device, or fail to log out or deactivate your device, subsequent users may be able to access your account, including your personal information.

### Your Choices

Email and Text Messages. If you no longer want to receive certain
communications from us via email or text message, simply access the
"Communications Settings" option in the "Account" section of our website and
uncheck those items to unsubscribe. Alternatively, click the "unsubscribe"
link in the email or reply STOP (or as otherwise instructed) to the text
message. Please note that you cannot unsubscribe from service-related
correspondence from us, such as messages relating to your account
transactions.

Push Notifications. You can choose to receive mobile push notifications from
Netflix. On some device operating systems, you will be automatically enrolled
in the notifications. If you subsequently decide you no longer wish to receive
these notifications, you can use your mobile device's settings functionality
to turn them off. We also offer push notifications on certain web browsers. If
you agree to receive those notifications and subsequently decide you no longer
wish to receive these notifications, you can use your browser’s settings to
turn them off.

WhatsApp. If you have enabled WhatsApp messages in connection with your
Netflix account or profile and no longer wish to receive them, you can use
your WhatsApp app settings to block them.

Interest-Based Ads. Interest-based ads are online ads that are tailored to
your likely interests based on your use of various apps and websites across
the Internet. If you are using a browser, then cookies and web beacons can be
used to collect information to help determine your likely interests. If you
are using a mobile device, tablet, or streaming media device that includes a
resettable device identifier, then that identifier can be used to help
determine your likely interests. For your choices about interest-based ads
from Netflix, please see the "Cookies and Internet Advertising" section
(below).

Matched Identifier Communications. Some third party sites and apps allow us to
reach our users with online promotions about our titles and services by
sending a privacy protective identifier to the third party. A privacy
protective identifier means we convert the original information (such as an
email address or phone number) into a value to keep the original information
from being revealed. The third party compares the privacy protective
identifier to identifiers in its database and there will be a match only if
you have used the same identifier (such as an email address) with Netflix and
the third party. If there is a match, Netflix can then choose whether or not
to send a given promotional communication to you on that third party site or
app, and can optimize and better measure the effectiveness of online
advertising. You can opt out in the “Marketing Communications” section of the
“Account” section of our website.

### Your Information and Rights

You can request access to your personal information, or correct or update out-
of-date or inaccurate personal information we hold about you.

You can most easily do this by visiting the "Account" portion of our website,
where you have the ability to access and update a broad range of information
about your account, including your contact information, your Netflix payment
information, and various related information about your account (such as the
content you have viewed and rated). You must be signed in to access the
"Account" section. You may also request that we delete personal information
that we hold about you.

To make requests, or if you have any other question regarding our privacy
practices, please contact our Data Protection Officer/Privacy Office at
privacy@netflix.com. We respond to all requests we receive from individuals
wishing to exercise their data protection rights in accordance with applicable
data protection laws. Please also see the "Your Choices" section of this
Privacy Statement for additional choices regarding your information.

We may reject requests that are unreasonable or not required by law, including
those that would be extremely impractical, could require disproportionate
technical effort, or could expose us to operational risks such as free trial
fraud. We may retain information as required or permitted by applicable laws
and regulations, including to honor your choices, for our billing or records
purposes and to fulfill the purposes described in this Privacy Statement. We
take reasonable measures to destroy or de-identify personal information in a
secure manner when it is no longer required.

If you are a California consumer, please see our California Consumer Privacy
Act (CCPA) Privacy Notice by clicking on the link, going to
https://help.netflix.com/legal/privacy#ccpa or simply scrolling down.

### Security

We use reasonable administrative, logical, physical and managerial measures to
safeguard your personal information against loss, theft and unauthorized
access, use and modification. These measures are designed to provide a level
of security appropriate to the risks of processing your personal information.
Unfortunately, no measures can be guaranteed to provide 100% security.
Accordingly, we cannot guarantee the security of your personal information.

### Other Websites, Platforms and Applications

The Netflix service may be provided through and/or utilize features (such as
voice controls) operated by third party platforms, or contain links to sites
operated by third parties whose policies regarding the handling of information
may differ from ours. For example, you may be able to access the Netflix
service through platforms such as gaming systems, smart TVs, mobile devices,
set top boxes and a number of other Internet connected devices. These websites
and platforms have separate and independent privacy or data policies, privacy
statements, notices and terms of use, which we recommend you read carefully.
In addition, you may encounter third party applications that interact with the
Netflix service.

### Children

You must be 18 years of age or older to subscribe to the Netflix service. In
certain jurisdictions, the age of majority may be older than 18, in which
case, you must satisfy that age in order to become a member. While individuals
under the age of 18 may utilize the service, they may do so only with the
involvement, supervision, and approval of a parent or legal guardian.

### Changes to This Privacy Statement

We will update this Privacy Statement from time to time in response to
changing legal, regulatory or operational requirements. We will provide notice
of any such changes (including when they will take effect) in accordance with
law. Your continued use of the Netflix service after any such updates take
effect will constitute acknowledgement and (as applicable) acceptance of those
changes. If you do not wish to acknowledge or accept any updates to this
Privacy Statement, you may cancel your use of the Netflix service. To see when
this Privacy Statement was last updated, please see the "Last Updated" section
below.

### Cookies and Internet Advertising

We and our Service Providers use cookies and other technologies (such as web
beacons), as well as resettable device identifiers, for various reasons. We
want you to be informed about our use of these technologies, so this section
explains the types of technologies we use, what they do and your choices
regarding their use.

Cookies and similar technologies, web beacons, and resettable device
identifiers

Cookies are small data files that are commonly stored on your device when you
browse and use websites and online services. We use other technologies such as
browser storage and plugins (e.g., HTML5, IndexedDB, and WebSQL). Like
cookies, these other technologies may store small amounts of data on your
device. Web beacons (also known as clear gifs or pixel tags) often work in
conjunction with cookies. In many cases, declining cookies will impair the
effectiveness of web beacons associated with those cookies.

If you use the Netflix app on a mobile device, tablet, or streaming media
device, we may collect a resettable device identifier from your device.
Resettable device identifiers (also known as advertising identifiers) are
similar to cookies and are found on many mobile devices and tablets (for
example, the "Identifier for Advertisers" (or IDFA) on Apple iOS devices and
the "Google Advertising ID" on Android devices), and certain streaming media
devices. Like cookies, resettable device identifiers are used to make online
advertising more relevant and for analytics and optimization purposes.

Why does Netflix use these technologies?

We use these types of technologies for various reasons, like making it easy to
access our services by remembering you when you return; to provide, analyze,
understand and enhance the use of our services; to enforce our terms, prevent
fraud; to improve site performance, monitor visitor traffic and actions on our
site; and to deliver and tailor our marketing or advertising, and to
understand interactions with our emails, marketing, and online ads on third
party sites.

To help you better understand how we use cookies and resettable device
identifiers, please see the information below:

  * Essential cookies: These cookies are strictly necessary to provide our website or online service. For example, we and our Service Providers may use these cookies to authenticate and identify our members when they use our websites and applications so we can provide our service to them. They also help us to enforce our Terms of Use, prevent fraud and maintain the security of our service.

  * Performance and functionality cookies: These cookies are not essential, but help us to personalize and enhance your online experience with Netflix. For example, they help us to remember your preferences and prevent you from needing to re-enter information you previously provided (for example, during member sign up). We also use these cookies to collect information (such as popular pages, conversion rates, viewing patterns, click-through and other information) about our visitors' use of the Netflix service so that we can enhance and personalize our website and service and conduct market research. Deletion of these types of cookies may result in limited functionality of our service.

  * Advertising cookies and resettable device identifiers: These cookies and resettable device identifiers use information about your use of this and other websites and apps, your response to ads and emails, and to deliver ads that are more relevant to you. These types of ads are called "interest-based advertising." Many of the advertising cookies associated with our service belong to our Service Providers.

In connection with our use of these technologies, some of the websites and
apps where we advertise, as well as advertising technology companies that we
use to purchase, deliver, optimize, and/or measure our advertisements
(collectively “Advertising Partners”), may receive limited information from us
as part of our campaign targeting, measurement, and optimization (e.g., steps
completed in sign-up and site visit or app open/install information).

Common uses of this type of information are to judge the effectiveness of and
optimize ad campaigns, by allowing Advertising Partners to see when someone
who saw an ad later signed up for our service. Another common use is to make
sure we do not serve ads trying to get individuals to sign up for the Netflix
service if they are already a Netflix user.

Netflix uses contractual and technical measures designed to prevent
Advertising Partners from accessing information regarding specific title
selections you make, URLs you land on, or shows you have watched on our
service. We do not share information about title selections or your shows you
have watched on our service.

How can I exercise choice regarding these technologies?

  * To exercise choice regarding cookies

For more information about cookies set through our website, as well as other
types of online tracking (including the collection of information by third
parties about your online activities over time and across third-party web
sites or online services for online interest based advertising), and to
exercise choices regarding them, click here. At this time, we do not respond
to web browser "do not track" signals.

  * To exercise choice regarding resettable device identifiers

To opt out of interest-based ads from Netflix in connection with an resettable
device identifier on a mobile device, tablet, or streaming media devices,
please configure the appropriate setting on your device (usually found under
"privacy" or "ads" in your device's settings). You may still see Netflix ads
on your device, but they will not be tailored to your likely interests.

  * To exercise choice using self-regulatory program resources

Netflix supports the following self-regulatory programs, which provide
additional privacy choices for interest-based advertising:

    * In the US: Digital Advertising Alliance (DAA)

    * In Europe: European Interactive Digital Advertising Alliance (EDAA)

    * In Canada: AdChoices: Digital Advertising Alliance of Canada (DAAC) / Choix de Pub: l'Alliance de la publicité numérique du Canada (DAAC)

  * To exercise choice regarding other technologies

There are a number of ways to exercise choice regarding technologies that are
similar to cookies, such as browser storage and plugins (e.g., HTML5,
IndexedDB, and WebSQL). For example, many popular browsers provide the ability
to clear browser storage, commonly in the settings or preferences area; see
your browser's help function or support area to learn more. Other
technologies, such as Silverlight storage, may be cleared from within the
application.

### California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Privacy Notice

This Privacy Notice applies to California consumers and supplements the
Privacy Statement.

Personal Information We Collect

We collect information that identifies, relates to, describes, is reasonably
capable of being associated with, or could reasonably be linked, directly or
indirectly, with a particular consumer or household (“CCPA personal
information”). We have collected the following categories of CCPA personal
information from consumers within the last twelve (12) months:

  * Identifiers: “Identifiers” covers a broad range of information, including things like name, email address, postal address, telephone number, and IP address. We collect some CCPA personal information that falls into this category. For example, for streaming subscribers we’re going to have an email address, payment information (like a credit card), and for DVD customers we’re going to have a postal address. We collect IP addresses when you connect to our service online. These sorts of identifiers are connected to your Netflix account. There are also identifiers we use for purposes like advertising (resettable device identifiers, third party advertising cookies on our website) that we do not associate with your account, but that can be used to reach you with promotional messages on other websites and applications.

  * Characteristics of protected classifications under California or federal law: This covers a broad range of information like race, sex, marital status, among other protected classes. We will collect this sort of information about you if you choose to participate in our optional research surveys, or other research activity such as an in person interview or panel. We do not collect this information when you register for the Netflix service.

  * Commercial information: This includes information about products or services considered, obtained or purchased.

  * Internet or other electronic network activity information: Our streaming and DVD services are online services, so we collect CCPA personal information in this category, like your interactions with our service.

  * Geolocation data: Our streaming and DVD applications don’t collect precise geolocation data from GPS sensors. However, we do collect IP addresses from which we can determine your general location.

  * Inferences: We have a recommendations system that does its best to predict what you’ll be in the mood to watch when you log in. However, we do not have a list in our recommendation systems that attaches socio-demographic information to you like “soccer dad who likes rom coms” or “financially savvy mom who craves action films” or “singleton high school grad who likes tiny houses.” We have a Help article that explains how our recommendations system works - spoilers: the biggest driver is what you actually choose to watch through our service. You can read the article at www.netflix.com/recommendations.

Uses of CCPA personal information

We use categories of CCPA personal information listed above for the purposes
noted in the Use of Information section of our Privacy Statement. For ease of
reference, we repeat that section below:

We use personal information to provide, analyze, administer, enhance and
personalize our services and marketing efforts, to process your registration,
your orders and your payments, and to communicate with you on these and other
topics. For example, we use such information to:

  * determine your general geographic location, provide localized content, provide you with customized and personalized viewing recommendations for movies and TV shows we think will be of interest to you, determine your Internet service provider, and help us quickly and efficiently respond to inquiries and requests;

  * to coordinate with Partners on making the Netflix service available to members and providing information to non members about the availability of the Netflix service, based on the specific relationship you have with the Partner;

  * prevent, detect and investigate potentially prohibited or illegal activities, including fraud, and to enforce our terms (such as determining free trial eligibility);

  * analyze and understand our audience, improve our service (including our user interface experiences) and optimize content selection, recommendation algorithms and delivery;

  * communicate with you concerning our service so that we can send you news about Netflix, details about new features and content available on Netflix, special offers, promotional announcements, consumer surveys, and to assist you with operational requests such as password reset requests. These communications may be by various methods, such as email, push notifications, text message, online messaging channels, and matched identifier communications (described below). Please see the "Your Choices" section of this Privacy Statement to learn how to set or change your communications preferences.

Categories of CCPA personal information disclosed for a business purpose

We disclose the categories of CCPA personal information listed above for
business purposes. (Please see the Disclosure of Information section of our
Privacy Statement for additional details that may be of interest to you.)

Sources of CCPA personal information

We explain our sources of information in the Collection of Information section
of our Privacy Statement. (Please see that section for more information that
may be of interest to you.) For ease of reference, in regard to CCPA personal
information these are:

  * You (the consumer) when you provide us CCPA personal information directly, and when we collect it automatically based on your interactions with us (for example, through your computer or other Netflix capable device you use to access our service (such as gaming systems, smart TVs, mobile devices, set top boxes, and other streaming media devices);

  * Partners (other companies with whom you have a relationship). These Partners might include (depending on what services you use): your TV or Internet service provider, or other streaming media device providers who make our service available on their device; mobile phone carriers or other companies who provide services to you and collect payment for the Netflix service for distribution to us; and voice assistant platform providers who enable interaction with our service via voice commands; and

  * Other sources: service providers who support our business and publicly-available sources, specifically, public posts on social media platforms and information about Internet Service Providers (ISPs) used by members to access Netflix through public databases associating IP addresses with ISPs.

Your rights under the CCPA

  * You have the right to know: what categories and specific pieces of CCPA personal information have been collected about you; the categories of sources from which CCPA personal information are collected; our business or commercial purpose for collecting, using, or disclosing CCPA personal information; the categories of third parties with whom we share CCPA personal information; the categories of CCPA personal information we have disclosed about you for a business purpose. We do not sell personal information.

  * You have a right to receive a copy of the specific CCPA personal information we have collected about you.

  * You have a right to deletion of your CCPA personal information, subject to exceptions under the CCPA.

  * We will not discriminate against you based on your exercise any of your CCPA rights.

You can assert these rights only where we receive a verified request from you.
To make requests, or if you have a question regarding our privacy practices,
please contact our Data Protection Officer/Privacy Office at
privacy@netflix.com.


### The Apple Privacy Policy was updated on December 31, 2019.

Your privacy is important to Apple so we’ve developed a Privacy Policy that
covers how we collect, use, disclose, transfer, and store your personal
information.

In addition to this Privacy Policy, we provide data and privacy information
imbedded in our products connected with our Data & Privacy Icon for certain
features that ask to use your personal information.



You can review this information before enabling these features, in Settings
related to those features and/or online at apple.com/legal/privacy. Please
take a moment to familiarize yourself with our privacy practices and contact
us if you have any questions.

Your California Privacy Disclosures
Information Regarding Commercial Electronic Messages in Canada
Apple Health Research Apps Privacy Policy



## Collection and Use of Personal Information

Personal information is data that can be used to identify or contact a single
person.

You may be asked to provide your personal information anytime you are in
contact with Apple or an Apple affiliated company. Apple and its affiliates
may share this personal information with each other and use it consistent with
this Privacy Policy. They may also combine it with other information to
provide and improve our products, services, content, and advertising. You are
not required to provide the personal information that we have requested, but,
if you chose not to do so, in many cases we will not be able to provide you
with our products or services or respond to any queries you may have.

Here are some examples of the types of personal information Apple may collect
and how we may use it:

### What personal information we collect

  * When you create an Apple ID, apply for commercial credit, purchase a product, download a software update, register for a class at an Apple Retail Store, connect to our services, contact us including by social media or participate in an online survey, we may collect a variety of information, including your name, mailing address, phone number, email address, contact preferences, device identifiers, IP address, location information, credit card information and profile information where the contact is via social media.
  * When you share your content with family and friends using Apple products, send gift certificates and products, or invite others to participate in Apple services or forums, Apple may collect the information you provide about those people such as name, mailing address, email address, and phone number. Apple will use such information to fulfill your requests, provide the relevant product or service, or for anti-fraud purposes.
  * In certain jurisdictions, we may ask for a government issued ID in limited circumstances including when setting up a wireless account and activating your device, for the purpose of extending commercial credit, managing reservations, or as required by law.

### How we use your personal information

We may process your personal information: for the purposes described in this
Privacy Policy, with your consent, for compliance with a legal obligation to
which Apple is subject, for the performance of a contract to which you are
party, in order to protect your vital interests, or when we have assessed it
is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by Apple or
a third party to whom it may be necessary to disclose information. If you have
questions about this legal basis you can contact the Data Protection Officer.

  * The personal information we collect allows us to keep you posted on Apple’s latest product announcements, software updates, and upcoming events. If you don’t want to be on our mailing list, you can opt-out anytime by updating your preferences.
  * We also use personal information to help us create, develop, operate, deliver, and improve our products, services, content and advertising, and for loss prevention and anti-fraud purposes. We may also use your personal information for account and network security purposes, including in order to protect our services for the benefit of all our users, and pre-screening or scanning uploaded content for potentially illegal content, including child sexual exploitation material. Where we use your information for anti-fraud purposes it arises from the conduct of an online transaction with us. We limit our uses of data for anti-fraud purposes to those which are strictly necessary and within our assessed legitimate interests to protect our customers and our services. For certain online transactions we may also validate the information provided by you with publicly accessible sources.
  * We may use your personal information, including date of birth, to verify identity, assist with identification of users, and to determine appropriate services. For example, we may use date of birth to determine the age of Apple ID account holders.
  * From time to time, we may use your personal information to send important notices, such as communications about purchases and changes to our terms, conditions, and policies. Because this information is important to your interaction with Apple, you may not opt out of receiving these communications.
  * We may also use personal information for internal purposes such as auditing, data analysis, and research to improve Apple’s products, services, and customer communications.
  * If you enter into a sweepstake, contest, or similar promotion we may use the information you provide to administer those programs.
  * If you apply for a position at Apple or we receive your information in connection with a potential role at Apple, we may use your information to evaluate your candidacy and to contact you. If you are a candidate, you will receive more information about how Apple handles candidate personal information at the time of application.

### Source of your personal information where they are not collected from you

We may have received your personal information from other persons if that
person has shared their content with you using Apple products, sent gift
certificates and products, or invited you to participate in Apple services or
forums. We may also validate the information provided by you when creating an
Apple ID with a third party for security and fraud prevention purposes.

If you are a potential candidate for employment with Apple, we may have
received your personal information from third parties such as recruiters or
external websites. We will use the personal information we receive to contact
you about a potential opportunity or in evaluating your candidacy. If you did
not provide us your personal information directly, we will inform you of the
source when we first contact you regarding your candidacy. For research and
development purposes, we may use datasets such as those that contain images,
voices or other data that could be associated with an identifiable person.
When acquiring such datasets, we do so in accordance with applicable law in
the jurisdiction in which the dataset is hosted. When using such datasets for
research and development, we do not attempt to re-identify individuals who may
appear therein.

## Collection and Use of Non-Personal Information

We also collect data in a form that does not, on its own, permit direct
association with any specific individual. We may collect, use, transfer, and
disclose non-personal information for any purpose. The following are some
examples of non-personal information that we collect and how we may use it:

  * We may collect information such as occupation, language, zip code, area code, unique device identifier, referrer URL, location, and the time zone where an Apple product is used so that we can better understand customer behavior and improve our products, services, and advertising.
  * We may collect information regarding customer activities on our website, iCloud services, our iTunes Store, App Store, Mac App Store, App Store for Apple TV and iBooks Stores and from our other products and services. This information is aggregated and used to help us provide more useful information to our customers and to understand which parts of our website, products, and services are of most interest. Aggregated data is considered non‑personal information for the purposes of this Privacy Policy.
  * We may collect and store details of how you use our services, including search queries. This information may be used to improve the relevancy of results provided by our services. Except in limited instances to ensure quality of our services over the Internet, such information will not be associated with your IP address.
  * With your explicit consent, we may collect data about how you use your device and applications in order to help app developers improve their apps.

If we do combine non-personal information with personal information the
combined information will be treated as personal information for as long as it
remains combined.

## Cookies and Other Technologies

Apple’s websites, online services, interactive applications, email messages,
and advertisements may use "cookies" and other technologies such as pixel tags
and web beacons. These technologies help us better understand user behavior,
tell us which parts of our websites people have visited, and facilitate and
measure the effectiveness of advertisements and web searches. We treat
information collected by cookies and other technologies as non‑personal
information. However, to the extent that Internet Protocol (IP) addresses or
similar identifiers are considered personal information by local law, we also
treat these identifiers as personal information. Similarly, to the extent that
non-personal information is combined with personal information, we treat the
combined information as personal information for the purposes of this Privacy
Policy.

Ads that are delivered by Apple’s advertising platform may appear in Apple
News and in the App Store. If you do not wish to receive ads targeted to your
interests from Apple's advertising platform, you can choose to enable Limit Ad
Tracking, which will opt your Apple ID out of receiving such ads regardless of
what device you are using. If you enable Limit Ad Tracking on your mobile
device, third-party apps cannot use the Advertising Identifier, a non-personal
device identifier, to serve you targeted ads. You may still see ads in the App
Store or News based on context like your search query or the channel you are
reading. In third-party apps, you may see ads based on other information.

Apple also uses cookies and other technologies to remember personal
information when you use our website, online services, and applications. Our
goal in these cases is to make your experience with Apple more convenient and
personal. For example, knowing your first name lets us welcome you the next
time you visit the Apple Online Store. Knowing your country and language − and
if you are an educator, your school − helps us provide a customized and more
useful shopping experience. Knowing someone using your computer or device has
shopped for a certain product or used a particular service helps us make our
advertising and email communications more relevant to your interests. And
knowing your contact information, hardware identifiers, and information about
your computer or device helps us personalize your operating system, set up
your iCloud service, and provide you with better customer service.

If you want to disable cookies and you’re using the Safari web browser, go to
Safari preferences and then to the privacy pane to manage your preferences. On
your Apple mobile device, go to Settings, then Safari, scroll down to the
Privacy & Security section, and tap on “Block Cookies” to manage your
preferences. For other browsers, check with your provider to find out how to
disable cookies. Please note that certain features of the Apple website will
not be available once cookies are disabled.

As is true of most internet services, we gather some information automatically
and store it in log files. This information includes Internet Protocol (IP)
addresses, browser type and language, Internet service provider (ISP),
referring and exit websites and applications, operating system, date/time
stamp, and clickstream data. We use this information to understand and analyze
trends, to administer the site, to learn about user behavior on the site, to
improve our product and services, and to gather demographic information about
our user base as a whole. Apple may use this information in our marketing and
advertising services.

In some of our email messages, we use a “click-through URL” linked to content
on the Apple website. When customers click one of these URLs, they pass
through a separate web server before arriving at the destination page on our
website. We track this click-through data to help us determine interest in
particular topics and measure the effectiveness of our customer
communications. If you prefer not to be tracked in this way, you should not
click text or graphic links in the email messages. Pixel tags enable us to
send email messages in a format customers can read, and they tell us whether
mail has been opened. We may use this information to reduce or eliminate
messages sent to customers.

## Disclosure to Third Parties

At times Apple may provide third parties with certain personal information to
provide or improve our products and services, including to deliver products at
your request, or to help Apple market to consumers. When we do, we require
those third parties to handle it in accordance with relevant laws. Apple does
not sell personal information, and personal information will never be shared
with third parties for their marketing purposes. For example, when you
purchase and activate your iPhone, you authorize Apple and your carrier to
exchange the information you provide during the activation process to carry
out service, including information about your device. If you are approved for
service, your account will be governed by Apple and your carrier’s respective
privacy policies.

### Service Providers

Apple shares personal information with companies who provide services such as
information processing, extending credit, fulfilling customer orders,
delivering products to you, managing and enhancing customer data, providing
customer service, assessing your interest in our products and services, and
conducting customer research or satisfaction surveys. These companies are
obligated to protect your information and may be located wherever Apple
operates.

### Others

It may be necessary − by law, legal process, litigation, and/or requests from
public and governmental authorities within or outside your country of
residence − for Apple to disclose your personal information. We may also
disclose information about you if we determine that for purposes of national
security, law enforcement, or other issues of public importance, disclosure is
necessary or appropriate. We may also disclose information about you, but only
where there is a lawful basis for doing so, if we determine that disclosure is
reasonably necessary to enforce our terms and conditions or protect our
operations or users. This could include providing information to public or
governmental authorities. Additionally, in the event of a reorganization,
merger, or sale we may transfer any and all personal information we collect to
the relevant third party.

## Protection of Personal Information

Apple takes the security of your personal information very seriously. Apple
online services such as the Apple Online Store and iTunes Store protect your
personal information during transit using encryption such as Transport Layer
Security (TLS). When your personal data is stored by Apple, we use computer
systems with limited access housed in facilities using physical security
measures. With the exception of iCloud Mail, iCloud data is stored in
encrypted form including when we utilize third-party storage.

When you use some Apple products, services, or applications or post on an
Apple forum, chat room, or social networking service, the personal information
and content you share is visible to other users and can be read, collected, or
used by them. You are responsible for the personal information you choose to
share or submit in these instances. For example, if you list your name and
email address in a forum posting, that information is public. Please take care
when using these features.

If you or anyone else using Family Sharing logs on to a device that is owned
by a third party, any information shared within your Family—including
calendar, location, photos, and iTunes purchases—may be downloaded on to that
third-party device thereby disclosing any such shared information. Visit
Family Sharing for more information.

## The Existence of Automated Decision-Making, Including Profiling

Apple does not take any decisions involving the use of algorithms or profiling
that significantly affect you.

## Integrity and Retention of Personal Information

Apple makes it easy for you to keep your personal information accurate,
complete, and up to date. We will retain your personal information for the
period necessary to fulfill the purposes outlined in this Privacy Policy and
our service specific privacy summaries. When assessing these periods we
carefully examine our need to collect personal information at all and if we
establish a relevant need we only retain it for the shortest possible period
to realize the purpose of collection unless a longer retention period is
required by law.

## Your Privacy Rights

You can help ensure that your contact information and preferences are
accurate, complete, and up to date by signing in to your Apple ID account
page. For other personal information we hold, we will provide you with access
(including a copy) for any purpose including to request that we correct the
data if it is inaccurate or delete the data if Apple is not required to retain
it by law or for legitimate business purposes.

We may decline to process requests that are frivolous/vexatious, jeopardize
the privacy of others, are extremely impractical, or for which access is not
otherwise required by local law. We may also decline aspects of deletion or
access requests if we believe doing so would undermine our legitimate use of
data for anti-fraud and security purposes as described earlier. Online tools
for the exercise of access, deactivation/restriction, correction, or deletion
requests are available on a regional basis by signing in to privacy.apple.com.
For users with Shazam accounts sign in to www.shazam.com/privacy. When you
make a request using these online tools, we will verify your identity and the
legitimacy of your request.

### California

The California Consumer Privacy Act provides California consumers with the
right to obtain from Apple information about the personal information about
you that we collect, use, and disclose. You can exercise your rights through
an authorized agent by providing relevant details to allow sign in to
privacy.apple.com. If you cannot access Apple’s online tools, you or your
agent can make a request to apple.com/legal/privacy/contact or by calling
1-800-275-2273.

If you choose to exercise your privacy rights, you have the right to not to
receive discriminatory treatment or a lesser degree of service from Apple.

### Nevada

You have the right to opt-out of the sale of your personal information. Apple
does not sell your personal information.

See our page on understanding and controlling your personal information for
more information on exercising your rights. Where the online tool is not
currently available for access requests in your region, a request may be made
directly to apple.com/legal/privacy/contact.

## Children & Education

We understand the importance of taking extra precautions to protect the
privacy and safety of children using Apple products and services. Children
under the age of 13, or equivalent minimum age in the relevant jurisdiction,
are not permitted to create their own Apple IDs, unless their parent provided
verifiable consent or as part of the child account creation process in Family
Sharing or they have obtained a Managed Apple ID account (where available)
through their school. For example, a parent must review the Apple ID and
Family Sharing Disclosure and agree to the Consent to Apple’s Collection, Use
and Disclosure of Your Child’s Information; and the iTunes Store Terms and
Conditions, before they can begin the Apple ID account creation process for
their child. In addition, schools that participate in Apple School Manager and
have reviewed and consented to the Managed Apple IDs for Students Disclosure
may create Managed Apple IDs for students. The Managed Apple IDs for Students
Disclosure describes how Apple handles student information and supplements
Apple’s Privacy Policy. Learn more about Family Sharing, the Managed Apple IDs
and Restrictions for children’s accounts. If we learn that we have collected
the personal information of a child under 13, or equivalent minimum age
depending on jurisdiction, outside the above circumstances we will take steps
to delete the information as soon as possible. If at any time a parent needs
to access, correct, or delete data associated with their Family Sharing
account or child’s Apple ID, they may contact us through one of the options
provided at the bottom of this page.

## Location-Based Services

To provide location-based services on Apple products, Apple and our partners
and licensees, such as maps data providers, may collect, use, and share
precise location data, including the real-time geographic location of your
Apple computer or device. Where available, location-based services may use
GPS, Bluetooth, and your IP Address, along with crowd-sourced Wi-Fi hotspot
and cell tower locations, and other technologies to determine your devices’
approximate location. Unless you provide consent, this location data is
collected anonymously in a form that does not personally identify you and is
used by Apple and our partners and licensees to provide and improve location-
based products and services. For example, your device may share its geographic
location with application providers when you opt in to their location
services.

Some location-based services offered by Apple, such as the “Find My” feature,
require your personal information for the feature to work.

## Third‑Party Sites and Services

Apple websites, products, applications, and services may contain links to
third-party websites, products, and services. Our products and services may
also use or offer products or services from third parties − for example, a
third‑party iPhone app.

Information collected by third parties, which may include such things as
location data or contact details, is governed by their privacy practices. We
encourage you to learn about the privacy practices of those third parties.

If you purchase a subscription in a third party app or within News, we create
a Subscriber ID that is unique to you and the developer or publisher which we
use to provide reports to the developer or publisher that include information
about the subscription you purchased, and your country of residence. If you
cancel all of your subscriptions with a particular developer or publisher, the
Subscriber ID will reset after 180 days if you do not resubscribe. This
information is provided to developers so that they can understand the
performance of their subscriptions.

## International Transfers

All the information you provide may be transferred or accessed by entities
around the world as described in this Privacy Policy. Personal information,
relating to Apple services, regarding individuals who reside in a member state
of the European Economic Area and Switzerland is controlled by Apple
Distribution International in Ireland, and processed on its behalf by Apple
Inc. Apple uses approved Model Contractual Clauses for the international
transfer of personal information collected in the European Economic Area and
Switzerland. Apple, as a global company, has a number of legal entities in
different jurisdictions which are responsible for the personal information
which they collect and which is processed on their behalf by Apple Inc. For
example, point of sale information in our Retail entities outside the U.S. is
controlled by our individual Retail entities in each country. Apple, Online
Store and iTunes related personal information may also be controlled by legal
entities outside the U.S. as reflected in the terms of each service. Imagery
and associated data collected by Apple around the world to improve Apple Maps,
and in support of our Look Around feature is transferred to Apple Inc in
California.

Apple abides by the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Cross Border
Privacy Rules System. The APEC CBPR system provides a framework for
organizations to ensure protection of personal information transferred among
participating APEC economies. If you have an unresolved privacy or data use
concern regarding our APEC CBPR and/or PRP certifications please visit our
third-party dispute resolution provider.

## Our Companywide Commitment to Your Privacy

To make sure your personal information is secure, we communicate our privacy
and security guidelines to Apple employees and strictly enforce privacy
safeguards within the company.

## Privacy Questions

If you have any questions or concerns about Apple’s Privacy Policy or data
processing, you would like to contact our Data Protection Officer, or if you
would like to make a complaint about a possible breach of local privacy laws,
please contact us. You can always contact us by phone at the relevant Apple
Support number for your country or region.

When a privacy question or question about personal information received in
response to an access/download request is received we have a dedicated team
which triages your contact to address your issue. Where your issue may be more
substantive in nature, we may request more information from you. All such
substantive contacts receive a response within seven (7), days wherever
possible - providing a response on the issue raised, requesting additional
information where necessary or indicating that a response will require
additional time. You may at any time refer your complaint to the relevant
regulator in your jurisdiction if you are unsatisfied with a reply received
from us. If you ask us, we will endeavor to provide you with information about
relevant complaint avenues which may be applicable to your circumstances.

Where your complaint indicates an improvement could be made in our handling of
privacy issues we will take steps to make such an update at the next
reasonable opportunity. In the event that a privacy issue has resulted in a
negative impact on you or another person we will take steps to address that
with you or that other person.

Apple may update its Privacy Policy from time to time. When we change the
policy in a material way, a notice will be posted on our website along with
the updated Privacy Policy. We will also contact you via your contact
information on file, for example by email, notification or some other
equivalent method.


# Reddit Privacy Policy

Effective June 8, 2018. Last Revised May 25, 2018

We want you to understand how and why Reddit, Inc. (“Reddit,” “we” or “us”)
collects, uses, and shares information about you when you use our websites,
mobile apps, widgets, and other online products and services (collectively,
the "Services") or when you otherwise interact with us or receive a
communication from us. This Privacy Policy applies to all of our Services
including Reddit Gifts, which maintains a separate privacy notice that
incorporates this Privacy Policy by reference.

What We Collect Information You Provide to Us

We collect information you provide to us directly when you use the Services.
This includes:

Account information. To create an account, you must provide a username and
password. Your username is public, and it doesn’t have to be related to your
real name. You may also provide an email address. We also store your user
account preferences and settings.

Content you submit. We collect the content you submit to the Services. This
includes your posts and comments including saved drafts, your messages with
other users (e.g., private messages, chats, and modmail), and your reports and
other communications with moderators and with us. Your content may include
text, links, images, gifs, and videos.

Actions you take. We collect information about the actions you take when using
the Services. This includes your interactions with content, like voting,
saving, hiding, and reporting. It also includes your interactions with other
users, such as following, friending, and blocking. We collect your
interactions with communities, like your subscriptions or moderator status.

Transactional information. If you purchase products or services from us (e.g.,
Reddit Gold or Reddit Ads) or sign up as a potential advertiser on Reddit Ads,
we will collect certain information from you, including your name, address,
email address, and information about the product or service you are
purchasing. Payments are processed by third-party payment processors (e.g.,
Stripe and PayPal), so please refer to the applicable processor’s terms and
privacy policy for more information about how payment information is processed
and stored.

Other information. You may choose to provide other information directly to us.
For example, we may collect information when you fill out a form, participate
in Reddit-sponsored activities or promotions, apply for a job, request
customer support or otherwise communicate with us.

Information We Collect Automatically

When you access or use our Services, we may also automatically collect
information about you. This includes:

Log and usage data. We may log information when you access and use the
Services. This may include your IP address, user-agent string, browser type,
operating system, referral URLs, device information (e.g., device IDs), pages
visited, links clicked, the requested URL, hardware settings, and search
terms. Except for the IP address used to create your account, Reddit will
delete any IP addresses collected after 100 days.

Information collected from cookies and similar technologies. We may receive
information from cookies, which are pieces of data your browser stores and
sends back to us when making requests, and similar technologies. We use this
information to improve your experience, understand user activity, personalize
content and advertisements, and improve the quality of our Services. For
example, we store and retrieve information about your preferred language and
other settings. For more information on how you can disable cookies, please
see “Your Choices” below.

Location information. We may receive and process information about your
location. For example, with your consent, we may collect information about the
specific location of your mobile device (for example, by using GPS or
Bluetooth). We may also receive location information from you when you choose
to share such information on our Services, including by associating your
content with a location, or we may derive your approximate location from other
information about you, including your IP address.

Information Collected from Other Sources

We may receive information about you from other sources, including from other
users and third parties, and combine that information with the other
information we have about you. For example, we may receive demographic or
interest information about you from third parties, including advertisers, and
combine it with our own data using a common account identifier such as a hash
of an email address or a mobile-device ID. You can control how we use this
information to personalize the Services for you by adjusting your preferences
here.

Linked services. If you authorize or link other services (e.g., third-party
apps or websites) to access your Reddit account, Reddit receives information
about your use of that service when it uses that authorization. Linking
services may also cause the other service to send us information about your
account with that service. To learn how information is shared with linked
services, see “How Information About You Is Shared” below.

Information collected from integrations. We also may receive information about
you, including log and usage data and cookie information, from third-party
websites that integrate our Services, including our embeds, buttons, and
advertising technology. For example, when you visit a website that uses Reddit
embeds, we may receive information about the web page you visited. You can
control how we use this information to personalize the Services for you by
adjusting your preferences here.

How We Use Information About You

We use information about you to:

  * Provide, maintain, and improve the Services;
  * Research and develop new services;
  * Help protect the safety of Reddit and our users, which includes blocking suspected spammers, addressing abuse, and enforcing the Reddit user agreement and our other policies;
  * Send you technical notices, updates, security alerts, invoices and other support and administrative messages;
  * Provide customer service;
  * Communicate with you about products, services, offers, promotions, and events, and provide other news and information we think will be of interest to you (for information about how to opt out of these communications, see “Your Choices” below);
  * Monitor and analyze trends, usage, and activities in connection with our Services; and
  * Personalize the Services and provide advertisements, content and features that match user profiles or interests. (for information about how to manage the types of advertisements you experience on our Services, see “Your Choices” below)

How Information About You Is Shared

When you use the Services, certain information may be shared with other users
and the public. For example:

  * When you submit content (such as a post or comment or public chat) to the Services, any visitors to and users of our Services will be able to see that content, the username associated with the content, and the date and time you originally submitted the content. Reddit allows other websites to embed public Reddit content via our embed tools. Reddit also allows third parties to access public Reddit content via the Reddit API and via other similar technologies. Although some parts of the Services may be private or quarantined, they may become public (e.g., at the moderator’s option in the case of private communities) and you should take that into consideration before posting to the Services.

  * When you send private messages, messages via modmail, or private chats, the recipients of those messages will be able to see the content of your message, your username, and the date and time the message was sent. Keep in mind that additional users may be invited to join a private chat after you send a message. Moderators may elect to have modmail forwarded to their email accounts and, as a result, any modmail received by these moderators will be subject to the terms and policies of the moderator’s email provider.

  * When other users view your profile, they will be able to see information about your activities on the Services, such as your username, prior posts and comments, karma, trophies, moderator status, Reddit Gold status, and how long you have been a member of the Services. If you choose to make the information public, your profile may also include your voting history.

  * We offer social sharing features that let you share content or actions you take on our Services with other media. Your use of these features enables the sharing of certain information with your friends or the public, depending on the settings you establish with the third party that provides the social sharing feature. For more information about the purpose and scope of data collection and processing in connection with social sharing features, please visit the privacy policies of the third parties that provide these social sharing features (e.g., Tumblr, Facebook, and Twitter).

Please note that, even when you delete your account, the posts, comments and
messages you submit through the Services may still be viewable or available on
our servers. For more information, see “Your Choices” below.

Otherwise, we do not share, sell, or give away your personal information to
third parties unless one of the following circumstances applies:

  * With linked services. If you link your Reddit account with a third-party service, Reddit will share the information you authorize with that third-party service. You can control this sharing as described in "Your Choices" below.

  * With our partners. We may share information with vendors, consultants, and other service providers (but not with advertisers and ad partners) who need access to such information to carry out work for us. The partner’s use of personal data will be subject to appropriate confidentiality and security measures.

  * To comply with the law. We may share information in response to a request for information if we believe disclosure is in accordance with, or required by, any applicable law, regulation, legal process or governmental request, including, but not limited to, meeting national security or law enforcement requirements. To the extent the law allows it, we will attempt to provide you with prior notice before disclosing your information in response to such a request. Our Transparency Report has additional information about how we respond to government requests.

  * In an emergency. We may share information if we believe it's necessary to prevent imminent and serious bodily harm to a person.

  * To enforce our policies and rights. We may share information if we believe your actions are inconsistent with our user agreements, rules, or other Reddit policies, or to protect the rights, property, and safety of ourselves and others.

  * With our affiliates. We may share information between and among Reddit, and any of our parents, affiliates, subsidiaries, and other companies under common control and ownership.

  * With your consent. We may share information about you with your consent or at your direction.

  * Aggregated or de-identified information. We may share information about you that has been aggregated or anonymized such that it cannot reasonably be used to identify you. For example, we may show the total number of times a post has been upvoted without identifying who the visitors were.

Ads and Analytics Partners

We may partner with third-party advertisers, ad networks, and analytics
providers to deliver advertising and content targeted to your interests and to
better understand your use of the Services. These third parties may collect
information sent by your computer, browser, or mobile device in response to a
request for content, such as unique identifiers, your IP address, or other
information about your computer or device. For example:

Advertisers and Ad Networks

Our ad partners and ad networks may use cookies and related technologies to
collect information when ads are delivered to you on our Services, but Reddit
does not link to or provide them with your actual Reddit account details. This
means that Reddit does not share your individual account browsing habits with
advertisers. Reddit cannot see advertisers’ cookies and advertisers will not
see Reddit cookies.

Analytics Partners

We use analytics partners (such as Google Analytics) to help analyze usage and
traffic for our Services. As an example, we may use analytics partners to
analyze and measure, in the aggregate, the number of unique visitors to our
Services.

Your Choices

As a Reddit user, you have choices about how to protect and limit the
collection, use, and disclosure of information about you.

Accessing and Changing Your Information

You can access and change certain information through the Services. See our
Help Center page for more information.

Deleting Your Account

You may delete your account information at any time from the user preferences
page. When you delete your account, your profile is no longer visible to other
users and disassociated from content you posted under that account. Please
note, however, that the posts, comments, and messages you submitted prior to
deleting your account will still be visible to others unless you first delete
the specific content. We may also retain certain information about you as
required by law or for legitimate business purposes after you delete your
account.

Controlling Linked Services’ Access to Your Account

You can review the services you have linked to your account and revoke access
to individual services here.

Controlling the Use of Cookies

Most web browsers are set to accept cookies by default. If you prefer, you can
usually choose to set your browser to remove or reject first- and third-party
cookies. Please note that if you choose to remove or reject cookies, this
could affect the availability and functionality of our Services.

Controlling Advertising and Analytics

Some analytics providers we partner with may provide specific opt-out
mechanisms and we may provide, as needed and as available, additional tools
and third-party services that allow you to better understand cookies and how
you can opt-out. For example, you may manage the use and collection of certain
information by Google Analytics here.

We also offer you choices about receiving personalized advertisements. You can
adjust how we personalize advertisements for you by visiting your ads
preferences here. You may also generally opt out of receiving personalized
advertisements from certain third-party advertisers and ad networks. To learn
more about these advertisements or to opt out, please visit the websites of
the Digital Advertising Alliance and the Network Advertising Initiative, or if
you are a user in the European Economic Area, Your Online Choices.

Do Not Track

Most modern web browsers give you the option to send a Do Not Track signal to
the websites you visit, indicating that you do not wish to be tracked.
However, there is no accepted standard for how a website should respond to
this signal, and we do not take any action in response to this signal.
Instead, in addition to publicly available third-party tools, we offer you the
choices described in this policy to manage the collection and use of
information about you.

Controlling Promotional Communications

You may opt out of receiving some or all categories of promotional
communications from us by following the instructions in those communications
or by updating your email options in your account preferences here. If you opt
out of promotional communications, we may still send you non-promotional
communications, such as information about your account or your use of the
Services.

Controlling Mobile Notifications

With your consent, we may send promotional and non-promotional push
notifications or alerts to your mobile device. You can deactivate these
messages at any time by changing the notification settings on your mobile
device.

Controlling Location Information

If you initially consent to our collection of location information, you can
subsequently stop the collection of this information at any time by changing
the preferences on your mobile device.

Other Information Information Security

We take measures to help protect information about you from loss, theft,
misuse and unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. For
example, we use HTTPS while information is being transmitted. We also enforce
technical and administrative access controls to limit which of our employees
have access to non-public personal information.

You can help maintain the security of your account by configuring two-factor
authentication.

Data Retention

We store the information we collect for as long as it is necessary for the
purpose(s) for which we originally collected it. We may retain certain
information for legitimate business purposes or as required by law.

International Data Transfers

We are based in the United States and we process and store information on
servers located in the United States. We may store information on servers and
equipment in other countries depending on a variety of factors, including the
locations of our users and service providers. By accessing or using the
Services or otherwise providing information to us, you consent to the
processing, transfer and storage of information in and to the U.S. and other
countries, where you may not have the same rights as you do under local law.

In connection with Reddit's processing of personal data received from the
European Union and Switzerland, we adhere to the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S.
Privacy Shield Program (“Privacy Shield”) and comply with its framework and
principles.

Please direct any inquiries or complaints regarding our compliance with the
Privacy Shield principles to the point of contact listed in the “Contact Us”
section below. If we do not resolve your complaint, you may submit your
complaint free of charge to JAMS. Under certain conditions specified by the
Privacy Shield principles, you may also be able to invoke binding arbitration
to resolve your complaint. We are subject to the investigatory and enforcement
powers of the Federal Trade Commission. If we share EU or Swiss data with a
third-party service provider that processes the data solely on our behalf,
then we will be liable for that third party’s processing of EU or Swiss data
in violation of the Privacy Shield principles, unless we can prove that we are
not responsible for the event giving rise to the damage.

For more information about the Privacy Shield principles and to view our
certification, please visit the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Privacy Shield
website.

Additional Information for EEA Users

Users in the European Economic Area have the right to request access to,
rectification of, or erasure of their personal data; to data portability in
certain circumstances; to request restriction of processing; to object to
processing; and to withdraw consent for processing where they have previously
provided consent. These rights can be exercised using the information provided
under “Your Choices” above or using the contact information provided at the
end of this document. EEA users also have the right to lodge a complaint with
their local supervisory authority.

As required by applicable law, we collect and process information about
individuals in the EEA only where we have legal bases for doing so. Our legal
bases depend on the Services you use and how you use them. We process your
information on the following legal bases:

  * You have consented for us to do so for a specific purpose;

  * We need to process the information to provide you the Services, including to operate the Services, provide customer support and personalized features and to protect the safety and security of the Services;

  * It satisfies a legitimate interest (which is not overridden by your data protection interests), such as preventing fraud, ensuring network and information security, enforcing our rules and policies, protecting our legal rights and interests, research and development, and marketing and promoting the Services;

  * We need to process your information to comply with our legal obligations.

Children

Children under the age of 13 are not allowed to create an account or otherwise
use the Services. Additionally, if you are in the EEA, you must be over the
age required by the laws of your country to create an account or otherwise use
the Services, or we need to have obtained verifiable consent from your parent
or legal guardian.

Changes to This Policy

We may change this Privacy Policy from time to time. If we do, we will let you
know by revising the date at the top of the policy. If we make a change to
this policy that, in our sole discretion, is material, we will provide you
with additional notice (such as adding a statement to r/announcements, the
front page of the Services or sending you a notification). We encourage you to
review the Privacy Policy whenever you access or use our Services or otherwise
interact with us to stay informed about our information practices and the ways
you can help protect your privacy. By continuing to use our Services after
Privacy Policy changes go into effect, you agree to be bound by the revised
policy.


# iMessage and FaceTime & Privacy

iMessage and FaceTime are designed to protect your information and enable you
to choose what you share.

iMessage is an Apple service that sends messages over Wi-Fi or cellular
connections to other iOS devices (with iOS 5 or later), iPadOS devices, Mac
computers (with OS X 10.8 or later), and Apple Watches. These messages don’t
count against your messaging plan. Messages sent via iMessage can include
photos, videos, and other info.

FaceTime is an Apple service that makes video or audio calls to someone who’s
also using an iOS or iPadOS device or a Mac, or audio calls using an Apple
Watch. These calls don’t count against your cellular minutes.

We designed iMessage and FaceTime to use end-to-end encryption, so there’s no
way for Apple to decrypt the content of your conversations when they are in
transit between devices. Attachments you send over iMessage (such as photos or
videos) are encrypted so that no one but the sender and receiver(s) can access
them. These encrypted attachments may be uploaded to Apple. To improve
performance, your device may automatically upload attachments to Apple while
you are composing an iMessage. If your message isn’t sent, the attachments are
deleted from the server after 30 days. When a passcode or password is set on
your iOS, iPadOS, or watchOS device, stored messages are encrypted on your
device so that they can’t be accessed unless the device has been unlocked.

You can choose to automatically delete your iMessages from your device after
30 days or a year, or to keep them on your device forever. For your
convenience, iMessages are backed up in iCloud and encrypted if you have
either iCloud Backup or Messages in iCloud enabled. You can turn off both
iCloud Backup and Messages in iCloud whenever you want. On iOS or iPadOS, go
to Settings > [your name] > iCloud. On macOS, choose Messages > Preferences,
tap iMessage, and deselect the “Enable Messages in iCloud” checkbox. We never
store the content of FaceTime calls.

You can sign in to iMessage and FaceTime using your Apple ID, or just your
phone number. If you sign in with your Apple ID on your device, you will be
signed in to iMessage and FaceTime automatically. Your Apple ID or phone
numbers will be shown to the people you contact, and people can reach you
using your Apple ID and email addresses or phone numbers on your account. You
can select which phone numbers or email addresses you’d like to start new
conversations from, and which phone numbers or email addresses you can receive
messages and reply from, in iMessage and FaceTime settings. You can add and
verify additional “Reachable At” information from your Apple ID account page.

Share Name and Photo allows you to share a name and photo with people you
iMessage. You can choose to automatically share with just your contacts, or to
be prompted each time. Your shared name and photo will be sent with your next
iMessage to the people you share with, and stored on their devices. If you
share your name and photo with an iMessage conversation with multiple people,
your name and photo will be sent to all the people in the conversation. You
can update your name and photo at any time. If you automatically share,
updates will be sent when you next send an iMessage to each person you share
with. If you have shared your name and photo and later turn off sharing,
others who previously received your name and photo may still have your
information on their devices. The name and photo you select for messages will
be sent to Apple, and stored on Apple’s servers encrypted in a way that Apple
cannot see.

Apple may record and store some information related to your use of iMessage
and FaceTime to operate and improve Apple’s products and services:

  * When you use iMessage and FaceTime, Apple may store information about your use of the services in a way that doesn’t identify you.
  * iMessages that can’t be delivered may be held by Apple for up to 30 days for redelivery.
  * Apple may record and store information about FaceTime calls, such as who was invited to a call, and your device’s network configurations, and store this information for up to 30 days. Apple doesn’t log whether your call was answered, and can’t access the content of your calls.
  * Some apps on your device (including Messages and FaceTime) may communicate with Apple’s servers to determine if other people can be reached by iMessage or FaceTime. When this happens, Apple may store these phone numbers and email addresses associated with your account, for up to 30 days.

By using these features, you agree and consent to Apple’s and its
subsidiaries’ and agents’ transmission, collection, maintenance, processing,
and use of this information as described above.

Information collected by Apple will be treated in accordance with Apple’s
Privacy Policy, which can be found at www.apple.com/privacy

Information about products not manufactured by Apple, or independent websites
not controlled or tested by Apple, is provided without recommendation or
endorsement. Apple assumes no responsibility with regard to the selection,
performance, or use of third-party websites or products. Apple makes no
representations regarding third-party website accuracy or reliability. Contact
the vendor for additional information.

Published Date: December 27, 2019


We know you care about your privacy and the protection of your personal
information. We also know it is our responsibility to be clear about how we
protect your information. We designed this Privacy Policy to do just that. It
explains the types of personal information we collect, and how we collect,
use, maintain, protect, and share this information. This Privacy Policy also
tells you about the rights and choices you may have when it comes to your
personal information.

Some of what we say in our Privacy Policy is required by law, and may at times
seem long and complicated, but we’ve worked hard to try to make our Privacy
Policy easy to understand and provide examples where possible. The Xfinity
Privacy Center includes more information about:

  * How to review and manage your personal information and account activity
  * How to set your marketing and advertising preferences, and opt out of certain information sharing
  * How our products and services help to protect you
  * How you can better protect yourself online

You can review this Privacy Policy and the information in the Xfinity Privacy
Center anytime. If you still have questions, you can contact us for more
information.

When the Privacy Policy Applies

This Privacy Policy applies to the information we collect when you use
Xfinity-branded products, services, networks, and platforms, including our
websites and mobile apps. It also applies to other Comcast-branded products
and services that link to it. We’ll refer to these as our “Services” in this
Privacy Policy. It also applies to the information we collect about you from
third parties. This Privacy Policy does not apply to non-Xfinity products,
services, websites, and mobile applications that you may access or use through
Xfinity platforms.

The Personal Information We Collect and How We Collect It

To provide you with our Services, we collect your personal information. This
can include information that does not personally identify you — such as device
numbers, IP addresses, and account numbers. It may also include information
that does personally identify you, such as your name, address, and telephone
number. We call any information that identifies you "personally identifiable
information" or "PII."

If you allow others to use your Comcast or Xfinity accounts or Services, we
will also collect personal information about those individuals. If you are not
a Comcast or Xfinity customer, but use our Services through someone else’s
account, we will collect information about you, but it may not identify who
you are to us. We may also collect information about you from third parties.

We collect this information to provide our Services, respond to your requests,
and to tailor our Services to best meet your needs and interests.

How and When We Use Information, Including for Marketing and Advertising

We use the information we collect to provide our Services and communicate with
you. We also use it to improve our Services, develop new products and
services, give recommendations, deliver personalized marketing and advertising
for our own and others’ products and services, investigate theft and other
illegal activities, and to ensure a secure online environment.

We may combine information across our systems, platforms, and databases. This
includes combining information we receive from third parties and information
about your use of our Services. We may also combine information about your use
of one Service with information we get from your use of another Service.

When and With Whom We Share Information

We do not sell, and have never sold, information that identifies who you are
to anyone. This includes your Internet usage information, video usage
information, or call detail information.

We share personal information with others when it’s needed to provide you with
our Services. We also share personal information with others:

  * When you direct us to do so, including to authorize other users on your account
  * When required by law or to respond to legal process
  * To protect our property or rights or the safety of our employees, our customers, or other individuals

If we share your personal information with other companies for their own
marketing and advertising activities, we will first get your consent. This may
be through opt-in or opt-out settings, depending on the type of personal
information shared.

We may also share personal information that does not identify you with third
parties for their own marketing and advertising purposes, which you can opt
out of. This mainly occurs when you interact with our websites and mobile
applications that contain third-party cookies or other advertising trackers.
To learn more about this, please read our Cookies Notice.

How We Protect Your Information

We follow industry-standard practices to secure the information we collect to
prevent the unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of any personal
information we collect and maintain. These security practices include
technical, administrative, and physical safeguards, which may vary, depending
on the type and sensitivity of the information. Although we take the
responsibility of safeguarding your personal information seriously, no
security measures are 100% effective and we cannot guarantee that these
practices will prevent every unauthorized attempt to access, use, or disclose
your information. Comcast also takes additional steps to increase the security
and reliability of customer communications. We do not read your outgoing or
incoming email, file attachments, video mail, private chat, or instant
messages. However, we (along with our service providers) use software and
hardware tools to help prevent and block "spam" emails, viruses, spyware, and
other harmful or unwanted communications and programs from being sent and
received over Comcast.net email and the Comcast Services. To help protect you
and the Services against these harmful or unwanted communications and
programs, these tools may automatically scan your emails, video mails, instant
messages, file attachments, and other files and communications. We do not use
these tools for marketing or advertising.

How Long We Keep Your Information

We keep your personal information for different lengths of time depending on
the type of information and the business and legal requirements. For example,
if you are a customer, we keep information that personally identifies you as
long as you subscribe to one or more of our Services. If you no longer
subscribe to a Service, we still may need that information for business and
legal requirements, such as to protect against fraud, calculate taxes, or
respond to legal requests. Other information is deleted automatically after a
set period of time, often set by law, unless we are legally required to hold
it longer, such as for pending litigation. We destroy, de-identify, or
anonymize the information when it is no longer needed in identifiable form.

The Choices You Have to Control Our Use of Personal Information

You have many choices about how we communicate with you and how we use or
share your information. You can manage these settings in the Xfinity Privacy
Preferences Center. If you change your mind, you can update your preferences
anytime.

How to Access and Correct the Information in our Records

Part of our commitment to transparency includes giving our customers access to
the personally identifiable information we have about them. If you subscribe
to Xfinity Services, you have the ability to see and correct your personally
identifiable information through the My Account or Xfinity Home portals.

If you are a California resident, you may have additional rights described in
the “Special Information Regarding California Residents’ Privacy Rights”
section of this Privacy Policy.

Your Rights and Our Limitations Under Federal Laws

The federal Cable Act imposes limitations on our collection and sharing of
information that personally identifies you when you subscribe to Services that
use the facilities of the Comcast cable system. The Communications Act imposes
restrictions on our use and sharing of CPNI when you use Services that are
deemed telecommunications services.

Special Information Regarding California Residents’ Privacy Rights

The California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (“CCPA”) provides California
residents with rights to receive certain disclosures regarding the collection,
use, and sharing of “Personal Information,” as well as rights to access,
delete, and restrict the sale of certain Personal Information we collect about
them. You may submit a request to exercise these rights by visiting our
Individual Rights Request Page or calling us at 1-844-963-0138.

The CCPA defines “Personal Information” to mean “information that identifies,
relates to, describes, is capable of being associated with, or could
reasonably be linked, directly or indirectly, with a particular consumer or
household.” If you are a California resident, you have a right not to receive
discriminatory treatment for the exercise of the privacy rights conferred by
the CCPA.

Residents of the State of California also have the right to request
information regarding third parties to whom the company has disclosed certain
categories of personal information during the preceding year for the third
parties’ direct marketing purposes under California’s “Shine the Light” law
(Cal. Civ. Code §1798.83). Personal information under this California law
means “any information that when it was disclosed identified, described, or
was able to be associated with an individual.” We do not disclose this type of
personal information to third parties for their own purposes and we permit you
to opt out of any disclosures of non-identifiable personal information.
However, if you are a California resident and would like to inquire further,
please email Comcast_Privacy@comcast.com.

We do not knowingly allow others to collect personally identifiable
information about your online activities over time and across third-party
websites when you use our online Services. Because definitions and rules for a
"Do Not Track" standard have not yet been established, including whether such
signals must be user-enabled, Comcast does not yet respond to "Do Not Track"
signals sent from browsers. For more information about cookies and other
online tracking technologies, please visit our Cookie Notice; to manage your
preferences, please visit the Xfinity Privacy Preferences Center.

Changes to this Privacy Policy

We may change this Privacy Policy over time as our business needs and those of
our customers change. If we make material changes to this Privacy Policy that
increase our rights to use personal information that we have previously
collected about you, we will notify you through written, electronic, or other
means so that you can make any necessary decisions about your ongoing use of
our Services.



## Stack Exchange, Inc. Privacy Policy

INTRODUCTION

The Stack Overflow Network (also referred to herein as “Stack Overflow” or
“Network”) is a set of related Internet sites and other applications for
questions and answers, owned and operated by Stack Exchange, Inc. (“Stack
Overflow”, “we” or “us”), a Delaware corporation. Stack Overflow welcomes you
to the Network, the largest community of developers in the world, and invites
you to participate in the community by sharing knowledge with your peers and
colleagues. We have the modest goal of making the internet a better place, and
as such are committed to your privacy. This privacy policy describes what
information we collect on our Network and in the use of our Products and
Services, how we use that information, and what options we offer you to
control your personal information.

We will need to process your personal information in order to offer the
Network, and to offer you our Products and Services. By using the Network or
(whether via the public or private Network, collectively the “Terms of
Service”), or purchasing our Products or Services, you confirm that you have
read and understood the Terms of Service and this privacy policy (“Privacy
Policy”) including how and why we use your information and that your use of
the Network is subject to the applicable Terms of Service and this Privacy
Policy. If you do not want us to collect or process your personal information
as described herein, you have several choices including limiting the
information we collect on you, or not using the Network, or our Products and
Services.

By using the Network or purchasing our Products and Services, you acknowledge
that Stack Overflow will use your information in the United States, the United
Kingdom, and Germany as well as any other country where Stack Overflow
operates. This privacy policy has been updated to comply with the EU’s General
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and this policy describes how we protect
personal information that is transferred outside of the EU. Please be aware
that the privacy laws and standards in certain countries, including the rights
of authorities to access your personal information, may differ from those that
apply in the country in which you reside. We will transfer personal
information only to countries to which we are permitted by law to transfer
personal information and we will continue to ensure that your personal
information is appropriately safeguarded.

HOW WE COLLECT INFORMATION ON YOU

In the course of providing you access to the Network, as well as Products and
Services, Stack Overflow collects and receives personal information in a few
ways. Often, you can choose what information to provide, but sometimes we
require personal information from you to carry out certain activities such as
account verification. This section details the ways in which we collect
information from you and how that information is received.

Account Registration

Although the Network provides for anonymous and pseudonymous participation, in
some instances in order to use certain Products or Services, we require
account registration. This requires a name associated with your account, an
email address at which we can contact you, and in some cases, additional
information including, a contact address, a billing address, and a password to
help secure your personal information.

Profile Information

When completing a public “profile” be it for use of the Network or our
Products and Services, we may require you to share certain personally
identifying information or sensitive information in required and optional
profile fields. The name associated with your account, which you may review
and change in your account settings, as well as reputation points are publicly
displayed and connected to your activity on the Stack Overflow Network and via
certain Products and Services such as our Talent and Teams platforms.

Other profile information may also be publicly displayed if you choose to
complete certain elective components of the Account Registration options
including, e.g., your Developer Story, display picture, affiliated role and
company, your location and your preferred technologies (javascript, swift,
sql-server, etc.), and some information is publicly displayed and required,
such as how long you have been a member. Similarly, you may share additional
information that is not required but will be displayed publicly at your
election. If you are using the private Network (e.g., Stack Overflow for
Teams), your account settings including, name, affiliated role and company,
and other information may be shared with your private Network Team members
designated as authorized users of your private Network account. While some of
the public and private Network profile information is required, much of it is
within your control as we describe herein and can be modified, updated, and
restricted by you in your Email Settings.

Information Collected Automatically

Stack Overflow receives and records information from your browser or mobile
device when you visit the Network or use the Apps, such as your Internet
Protocol (IP) address or unique device identifier. Cookies and data about
which pages you visit on our Network allow us to operate and optimize the
Products and Services we provide to you. This information is stored in secure
logs and is collected automatically. We may combine this browser information
with other information we collect about you. This information is used to keep
the Products and Services secure, analyze and understand how our Products and
Services are used, optimize such usage, provide advertising across the Network
as well as certain Products and Services to personalize your experience, and
to help connect you with potential job opportunities in the case of our
recruiting Products and Services.

Location Information

When you use the Stack Overflow Network, and certain of our Products and
Services, we collect location information about you including your IP address,
your location, browser information, and how you came to the Stack Overflow
Network. This is the case for individuals who have registered for an account,
and non-members who engage with the Stack Overflow Network by visiting our
website(s) but who have not completed an account registration. This
information is collected for various purposes, including advertising,
analytics and to serve content as it relates to certain Products or Services
(e.g., Talent), as well as to provide you with localized content,
recommendations, and marketing. You may revoke our permission to collect some
of this data, including your location and browser information through your
Account Settings, but this may limit functionality in some cases. Certain
location information we collect is required for security and site
functionality. We share this information with certain third-parties (e.g.,
talent recruiters, payment processors, and advertising providers) in order to
provide you with our Products and Services.

Information Shared with Third Parties

We may share personal information with third parties who provide services to
Stack Overflow, such as payment processors, email delivery services, and
advertising providers. Additionally, to improve user experience, we offer
single sign-on solutions for account login and these third parties (including
Facebook and Google) may receive information from these services when you
elect to use them. When Stack Overflow shares your personal information and
other collected information with third party service providers, we require
that they use your information only for the purpose of providing services to
us and that their terms are consistent with this privacy policy.

Advertising and Marketing Partners

When you register for an account, and when you interact with Stack Overflow,
we and authorized third parties place cookies on you and your account activity
as described in more detail within our Cookies Policy. We use this information
to serve you certain advertising content. Similarly, we market our Products
and Services to you and communicate important information and product
opportunities to you. If you do not wish to receive direct marketing
communications from us, you can tell us and remove yourself from our marketing
communications via the unsubscribe and opt out options in our email
communications and your Account Settings. If you do not wish to receive
advertising promotions, you may restrict such activities in your Account
Settings, but you should know that by doing so, you may reduce some
functionality and you may not have access to certain features within our
Products and Services (e.g., job recommendations on our Talent platform). For
more information on how to control your account settings or to opt out of
direct marketing campaigns, please visit your Email Settings.

Analytics Information

Stack Overflow uses data analytics to ensure site functionality and to
optimize our Product and Service offerings to you. We use web browser and
mobile analytics to allow us to understand Network and Apps functionality. In
doing so, we record information including, for example how often you visit the
Network, how often you contribute content, Network and Apps performance data,
errors and debugging information, and the type of activity you engage in while
on the Network or in your use of our Products and Services. We may on occasion
share this information with third parties for research or product and services
optimization.

Billing Information

For Products and Services requiring payment, we collect a billing name, phone
number, and email address. We also collect a billing and shipping address for
invoicing purposes. If you elect to pay by credit card, Stack Overflow may
engage a third party to securely process your payment. All payment processing
is done through a PCI DSS compliant third party. If customers are paying by a
credit card, their card details are vaulted through a third party payment
gateway. Stack Overflow will store an encrypted token along with the last four
digits of the credit card and the expiration month and year of the card and
will not store or retain any other billing information about you.

WHAT INFORMATION WE COLLECT ON YOU

This section describes in further detail the information we collect on you and
how we use that information broken down by our Products and Services
offerings.

Public Network (Questions and Answers Content)

The Public Question and Answer Network (“public Network”) allows individual
users to engage in a community to share their knowledge and expertise, and to
acquire knowledge and expertise. It is community-moderated, and the content in
the public Network is . . . public. To provide an optimal community
experience, and to ensure Network security, we collect certain personal
information.

We collect information such as your username, password, email address, IP
address (collected at each site visit). This information is also used to
identify individual users to the public Network and to award activities and
attribute them to you. Your username and additional content you provide
including your profile picture, question and answer content, and your
reputation are visible publicly. Other limited information is visible to
moderators, who have elevated access privileges, and may access content
including your posts. For more information about moderators and their role in
the Stack Overflow Network, please visit: /help/site-moderators. In addition,
when you choose to use certain features such as our chat or support features,
we collect a record of your communications with us and other third parties
that are accessible to chat participants and certain authorized third parties.
Other account information and usage information including your IP address and
browser data may be used for diagnosis, security and Product and Service
optimization.

Please be aware that when using the Public Question and Answer Network, you
cannot revoke permission for Stack Overflow to publish and to allow others to
have derivative rights to such public content once it is made public. The
content you contribute on the public network is public, in perpetuity, and
Stack Overflow loses direct control over such content when it is published on
the open internet. This also means that if you post personal information about
yourself, you do so at your own risk, including the risk of abandoning any
privacy rights you had in such information.

Additionally, from time to time, Stack Overflow makes such public content
available via compilation via the Creative Commons Data Dump and by providing
public content to the Stack Overflow Network, you should be aware that such
content, once public, cannot often be removed from public view even if it is
removed from the Stack Overflow network and our servers.

Talent and Jobs

The Stack Overflow Talent platform allows for companies looking to hire and
those seeking job opportunities to connect with each other and to engage in
new employment opportunities. To optimize the recruitment experience, and to
connect job seekers with jobs, we collect certain personal information on you
the account holder (or account unregistered job seeker), and on the company
and its authorized recruiters.

Whether you are a recruiter seeking to hire on our Talent platform, or a
registered account holder using our Jobs platform while seeking employment
opportunities, we collect certain account registration information on you. For
job seekers on the Jobs platform, we collect your name, location, email and
resume (where applicable) along with certain optional information including
your phone number and a cover letter (where applicable). For company
authorized users using our Talent Platform to recruit developers, we collect
certain account registration information on you including your name, email,
and affiliated company. For job seekers who chose to participate in our Jobs
platform your public profile can be observed and collected by those looking to
hire you. For company authorized users your profiles are visible to authorized
users of the company account and your contact details are visible to job
seekers via direct messaging on the Talent platform. The information we
collect on you as a job seeker is also used by Stack Overflow to customize job
recommendations. You may additionally opt-in to specific features that rely on
personal information. For example, you may elect to provide personal
information in your Developer Story which collects certain CV-like information
and achievements including employment history which may be used for recruiting
purposes.

Advertising Products

Stack Overflow partners with third parties to display advertisements on our
public Network and within our Talent Platform. These partnerships provide
third parties access to the developer community to promote themselves or
services and to provide you with visibility into companies and third parties
seeking to recruit you for employment opportunities, and for other purposes.
In providing this opportunity, Stack Overflow and its third party partners may
collect and use your personal information to tailor your advertising
experience to suit your interests, skills, as well as to monitor your account
activity in order to optimize our Products and Services.

We seek to limit what information advertisers and similar third parties have
access to, as well as to ensure that your user experience on the public and
private Stack Overflow network is not overwhelmed by advertising initiatives.
However, our advertising products and services require us to collect certain
personal and non-personal information on you, which includes:

  * Data from advertising technologies like cookies, web beacons, pixels, ad tags, and browser/device identifiers
  * Information you have provided to us directly including profile information, your Developer Story, and in limited instances your job history
  * Usage analytics including your visits to the Network, browsing and search history
  * Information from our advertising partners (e.g., device type and location)

Stack Overflow for Teams

Stack Overflow for Teams allows you to share private content via authorized
closed communities. When creating or joining a Team, we collect account
registration information on you the Entity and you the individual. On behalf
of the Entity, we collect Company or Entity name, Team Representative name,
the names of authorized users, and you may elect to provide a Company or Team
logo, trademark, or photo for account association purposes. As a participant
in Stack Overflow for Teams, we require you to create an individual account on
our public Network and we associate this account registration with your Team
for account security purposes and to verify your identity. Account
registration information as well as company or team affiliation information is
displayed to authorized users of your Team.

In addition to account registration and company or team affiliation
information, Stack Overflow collects certain application metadata for the
purposes of maintaining and enhancing the Stack Overflow for Team product and
related services we provide. This metadata is only made available to Stack
Overflow authorized personnel and in some cases authorized third parties under
a duty of confidentiality.

Any content you provide in the course of your use of the Stack Overflow for
Teams product is shared privately with authorized users of your Team, and may
include private questions and answers, votes, source code, and other sensitive
data. Our collection of such content is solely to provide the Products and
Services, and is provided pursuant to our private Network Terms. Stack
Overflow personnel may not access such content except to the extent as may be
required in response to a support request with your explicit permission, or
when required for security or maintenance of the product or services. In such
cases, Stack Overflow personnel will only access the minimum content necessary
to resolve the issue and in accordance with the private Network Terms.

Enterprise

Our Enterprise level platform is a privately hosted Question and Answer forum
for large corporate clientele. The collection of personal data is limited to
account registration information and usage analytics for product optimization.
For additional information regarding the collection and processing of your
Enterprise offering, please contact your account representative.

Developer Survey

As the world’s largest developer community, Stack Overflow annually publishes
a Developer Survey to provide key insights into the developer community,
including demographic and certain personal information. Your participation in
the Developer Survey as well as any other Stack Overflow survey is entirely
voluntary. In order to provide meaningful insights into the developer
community, Stack Overflow may collect sensitive data about you, including, but
not limited to your gender, race, sexual orientation, immigration status, and
your location. We consider this data to be among our most sensitive, and have
taken elevated measures to protect such data as well as to de-identify your
name and other personal information from such data. We restrict such data
within Stack Overflow on a privileged basis to only those that need to see it
and while we may share your personal information with certain third parties
such as researchers, we do so only after imposing contractual obligations of
confidentiality on such third parties and only where absolutely necessary for
limited research purposes.

When we publish the Developer Survey, it is published as a compilation of
anonymized data, which means that we take every effort to ensure that your
information is understood in a statistical narrative decoupled from your
personal identity.

If you have any questions concerning the Developer Survey and our security
measures to protect your sensitive personal data, please contact us at:
privacy (at) stackoverflow (dot) com.

YOUR CHOICE AND CONTROL OF THE INFORMATION WE COLLECT ON YOU

Privacy is a guiding principle of all Stack Overflow Products and Services and
we value your privacy. To this end, we provide you with the ability to control
how your information is stored, and what information is collected. You may
change or correct your account settings, and choose not to share certain
information by creating a pseudonymous account. Additionally, much of the data
we collect is voluntary and your choice entirely to provide us or not. You may
also remove certain optional information that you no longer wish to be
publicly displayed, such as your photo, or job history. In the event Stack
Overflow decides to provide additional opt-out or opt-in mechanisms under the
Privacy Shield Framework, the mechanisms will be clear, conspicuous, and
readily available for you to exercise your choice. And of course, should you
wish, you may also request the permanent deletion of your account, in which
case all personal information collected on you will be removed from our
servers and encrypted (except, in some cases your IP address required for
security purposes, site maintenance, and spam protection).

We also provide you additional data control options, created by the GDPR, but
provided to the Stack Overflow community regardless of geographic location
with respect to your information, including data access and portability
(including the right to obtain and download a copy of the personal data you
provided to Stack Overflow), data correction (the ability to update the
personal data we collect and display on you, in many cases via your account
settings), data deletion (where Stack Overflow will delete personal
information stored on you, which we are not required by necessity to
maintain), and the ability to have us stop processing your personal data (with
certain exceptions as may be necessary). For more information on these choices
you have over how we collect and store your personal data please visit our
GDPR page. Please also be aware that in order to provide some of these data
choices to you, we may need to first verify your identity. We will make
reasonable efforts to verify your identity, however if we are unable to do so,
we reserve the right to refuse such a request in keeping with data privacy and
information security principles.

You may additionally control the receipt of certain marketing and advertising
communications from Stack Overflow. Some messages that we send are required,
and related to our legal obligations, or service related and mandatory. Other
messages, like marketing and advertising communications are provided by us to
let you know how you can continue to share, learn, and build your knowledge
within the Stack Overflow community, and are voluntary. We provide you with
the opportunity to control which voluntary messages you would like to receive
in your Email Settings.

COOKIES

In order to provide the Stack Overflow Network along with the Products and
Services described in this policy, we may place cookies on you as well as
partner with third parties including advertising partners, who may use cookies
or other similar technologies to provide you with advertising based on your
browsing activities and interests. Please see our Cookies Policy for
additional information on how we use cookies and what third party cookies we
permit.

DATA PROCESSING DISCLOSURES

When you access the Stack Overflow Network and use the Products and Services
we offer, we collect, display, store, share, transmit, and process your
information in the manner described in this policy. In order to carry out
these activities, Stack Overflow may rely on a number of legal bases in order
to process your personal data, including where:

  * necessary to perform the contractual obligations in our Terms of Service and in order to provide the Products and Services to you
  * necessary for a third party’s, or our, legitimate interests
  * necessary to comply with a legal obligation or to defend legal claims
  * necessary to protect the public interest or vital interest of others
  * you have expressly made information public
  * you have consented to the processing, which may be revoked at any time

Where we process your information on the basis of legitimate interests, we do
so in order to:

Secure your Personal Data and Information

All records containing personal or financial information are considered to be
proprietary and are afforded confidential treatment at all times. Stack
Overflow is committed to the safety and security of your personal data and the
information that you share with us and with the public. We treat your personal
safety and safety from harassment as top organizational priorities. At Stack
Overflow we consider it necessary to pursue these legitimate interests in
order to keep our community, you and your information safe from spam,
harassment, intellectual property infringement, identity theft, and the
scraping and unlawful collection of your information.

Provide and Optimize Products and Services

We use your information to provide and improve our Products and Services, for
identification verification, to provide support, for online and offline
marketing including through third party tools such as Google Analytics, and
for general research and analytics reporting. In doing so, we may learn which
of our Products and Services you are using most, what you’re interested in,
and to better enable you to use and access our Products and Services. As a
core part of our business, Stack Overflow has a legitimate interest in
enabling and customizing your experience of our Product and Services
offerings.

Engage in Commercial Transactions

As part of providing our core Products and Services, Stack Overflow may charge
you for the use of some Products and Services, or certain features within
these Products and Services. In order to process your payment, and to secure
your financial information, we may facilitate the sharing of your information
with third parties. We share your information only with third parties who have
met strict security standards and consider the secure processing of your
financial information to be a strict and legitimate business necessity.

Comply with Regulatory and Legal Obligations

Stack Overflow has a legitimate interest in complying with certain legal
obligations and interests which, from time to time, may require the disclosure
of your personal information. Stack Overflow will not disclose your personal
information to legal authorities except where such disclosure is by lawful
request, including to meet legitimate national security or law enforcement
demands (including a subpoena, court order, or other lawful legal demand by a
legal authority with lawful jurisdiction). In some cases, we may also release
your personal information to defend our legitimate legal interests. We
consider our obligation to protect the Stack Overflow community from imminent
physical harm to be both a legitimate business interest as well as to be
within the public interest and may disclose your personal information if we
believe you or another individual may be in imminent danger of harm to
yourself or to another.

Marketing and Product Communications

From time to time, Stack Overflow may communicate with you about commercial
and other Product and Services offerings. In doing so, we provide you with an
opportunity to opt-out of such messages at any time you choose via your
account settings. Stack Overflow will not sell your personal information to
enhance our marketing opportunities or profitability (except as may relate to
a corporate event such as a sale or merger), and as we are committed to
preventing spam, our direct marketing efforts are limited in scope and
frequency. We engage in such activities as a legitimate business interest in
order to promote key Products and Service offerings and provide you with every
opportunity to unsubscribe from such communications or to further limit their
scope and frequency. In short, while we want to communicate some key
commercial communications with you and have determined it to be a legitimate
interest for us to be able to do so, you have the final say in whether or not
you would like to receive such commercial communications from us. You can
review or change your permissions in your Email Settings.

Core Business Operations

Stack Overflow may engage with third parties in business transactions
including the buying and selling of assets, the auditing of our business
practices and financials, and to engage in business development opportunities.
These core activities may involve the processing and/or disclosure of some
limited personal information which may be necessary and within our legitimate
interests to develop the Stack Overflow brand and business. If we transfer any
personal information in pursuing such a business transaction, we will always
ensure that strict confidentiality measures are in place to protect your
privacy interests.

DATA TRANSFERS

Stack Overflow is a global community and as such, you may access the Stack
Overflow Network from most anywhere in the world, and are subject to the local
laws of your jurisdiction. By accessing the Stack Overflow Network and
engaging with our Products and Services, you acknowledge that your personal
data may be collected and transferred from your local jurisdiction (including
member states to the European Union) to the United States.

Where Stack Overflow transfers your personal data from your local jurisdiction
(including member states to the European Union) we rely on certain lawful
transfer mechanisms to do so, including the following lawful bases for such
transfers:

Privacy Shield

Stack Overflow complies with the EU - US Privacy Shield Framework and Swiss -
US Privacy Shield Framework as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce
regarding the collection, use and retention of personal information
transferred from the European Union and Switzerland to the United States.
Stack Overflow has certified (note: certification under legal name Stack
Exchange, Inc.) to the Department of Commerce that it adheres to the Privacy
Shield Principles including onward transfer principles as amended by the GDPR
where applicable. Stack Overflow acknowledges accountability under the onward
transfer principles of the Privacy Shield Framework when transferring data to
to third parties. If there is any conflict between the terms in this privacy
policy and the Privacy Shield Principles, the Privacy Shield Principles shall
govern. To learn more about the Privacy Shield program, and to view our
certification, please visit https://www.privacyshield.gov/. Stack Exchange,
Inc. is subject to the investigative and enforcement powers of the Federal
Trade Commission. Under certain circumstances, you may invoke binding
arbitration to determine, for residual claims, whether Stack Overflow has
violated its Privacy Shield obligations, and whether any such violation
remains fully or partially unremedied. Stack Overflow has further committed to
refer unresolved Privacy Shield complaints to the PrivacyTrust Shield Program,
an alternative dispute resolution provider located in the United Kingdom. If
you do not receive timely acknowledgement of your complaint from Stack
Overflow, or if we have not addressed your concern to your satisfaction,
please contact us: privacy (at) stackoverflow (dot) com or visit
https://www.privacytrust.com/drs/stackexchange or at the contact information
provided below.

Standard Contractual Clauses

The European Commission has adopted standard contractual clauses (also
referred to as model clauses), which provide safeguards to protect the
transfer of personal information outside of the European Union. We may use
these standard contractual clauses when transferring personal information
outside of the European Union. You may review and request a copy of such
standard contractual clauses as used by Stack Overflow by contacting us at
legal (at) stackoverflow (dot) com.

OUR ONGOING COMMITMENT TO DATA SECURITY

Security is important to us and we know it is important to you. Stack Overflow
follows generally accepted standards to protect your personal information when
processing, transferring, and storing your personal information including
Transport Layer Security (“TLS”), by restricting your personal data when we do
not need to access it and by keeping your personal data only as necessary to
perform our legitimate business interests.

As the data subject, you too have an important role to play in helping us
protect your personal information. We encourage you to protect yourself
against unauthorized access to your personal information by choosing a
password carefully and in accordance with industry best standards. Do not
share your password with anyone you do not trust, and make sure your computer
accesses Stack Overflow via a secure network and that you do not leave your
personal information vulnerable to hackers and other bad actors by leaving
your computer unattended or by failing to logout of your account when you have
ended your session activity.

DIRECT MARKETING OPT-OUT

You may opt-out of receiving Stack Overflow email marketing materials by using
the unsubscribe link in these communications or by changing your Email
Settings.

PRIVACY POLICY AMENDMENTS

We may amend or update this policy from time to time, and will notify you of
any material changes to this policy. Previous versions of this privacy policy
are available upon request.



All library records that identify patrons by name are strictly confidential,
and access to them is limited to staff for legitimate library business. Such
records will not be made available to any individual or to any agency of
local, state or federal government, except with the explicit permission of the
patron in question or pursuant to a subpoena, court order or search warrant.

###### Online

When visiting Brooklyn Public Library's Web site and using our electronic
services, patrons can choose to provide their name, e-mail address, library
card barcode, phone number or home address. This information will only be used
to fulfill patron's service needs and to help the Library improve and target
its services effectively. Cookies may be used for these same purposes. A
cookie is a small piece of software that is placed by a Web server onto a
user's personal computer and is then used to personalize the site when the
visitor returns.

Patrons should be aware that they are subject to the privacy policies of any
non-BPL Web sites and organizations that they visit and use. For further
information regarding the use of the Internet and computers at Brooklyn Public
Library, please refer to our Internet Policy.

###### What you need to know about the USA Patriot Act

In accordance with New York State Law, your library records are confidential;
however, the federal USA Patriot Act requires the Library to provide access to
those records when requested with the appropriate authorization.

If information is requested, the USA Patriot Act will prohibit the Library
from notifying you of the request.

For more information on the USA Patriot Act and its application to libraries
please visit the American Library Association at:
http://www.ala.org/advocacy/advleg/federallegislation/theusapatriotact

#### Donor Privacy Policy

Brooklyn Public Library (BPL) respects your privacy. We recognize that our
donors may be concerned about the information they provide to us and how we
treat that information. Although no transmission on the Internet is 100%
secure, BPL exercises care in providing secure transmission of your
information from your PC to our servers.

###### Selling or Sharing Your Personal Information

BPL does not sell or share personal information about you.

###### Secure Transactions

BPL takes seriously the protection of sensitive information collected through
online donations. BPL select transaction vendors who agree to comply with
industry standards and generally agree upon methods of encryption and
encoding. Multiple "firewalls" are used to protect this personal information.

BPL uses a technology called Secure Socket Layer (SSL) to encrypt any credit
card information that you send us. Once such information is transmitted to our
site, it is stored on our servers and then conveyed to a third-party financial
institution that receives your credit card number and other personal
identifying information in order to verify and process a transaction.
Visiting NYC? Find events, attractions, deals, and more at nycgo.com


The Official Website of the City of New York

## Collection of Information by NYC.gov

In order to improve the content and usability of this website, the City of New
York (the "City") automatically collects several categories of information
from users. This information includes the following:

1\. The apparent Internet Protocol ("IP") address of your Internet Service
Provider ("ISP") and/or your computer, if your computer has an IP address
assigned directly to it. 1

2\. The apparent Fully Qualified Domain Name ("Domain Name") of your Internet
Service Provider ("ISP") and/or your computer, if your computer has a domain
name assigned directly to it. 2

3\. The type of browser (such as, for example Internet Explorer, Opera,
Firefox, Chrome, etc.) used and the operating system resident on a user's
computer.

4. The date and time a user visited the site.

5. The web pages accessed at the site, as well as any applications used and forms data.

6\. The Uniform Resource Locator ("URL") of the site which a user visited
prior to NYC.gov (if detectable), if such user did not connect directly to
NYC.gov, or use it as a homepage or "Portal".

The City uses this information to identify site performance needs; to ensure
compatibility with the technology used by NYC.gov's visitors, and to generally
add and improve services offered on NYC.gov. In order to accomplish those
goals, from time to time, the City may conduct statistical analysis of the
data it collects.

7. The City does not collect data for commercial or marketing purposes, 3 and the City does not sell, exchange, or otherwise distribute the data collected by NYC.gov for commercial or marketing purposes.

Information Submitted to NYC.gov
During a session on NYC.gov, a user may affirmatively submit information to
the City by, among other means, electronic mail ("e-mail"), filling in and
submitting an on-line form, screening for benefits and services, or electing
to personalize NYC.gov and use it as a customized portal. Such affirmatively
submitted information is stored in a secure environment, and will be used by
the City in furtherance of its duties and/or obligations to its citizenry
(i.e., "governmental purposes"). 4

The governmental purposes to which your affirmatively submitted information
may include, but are not limited to, the following:

1. Helping the City respond to a request for information not readily available from NYC.gov

2. Investigating a problem reported to the City via NYC.gov 5

3. Keeping lists of parties interested in some particular issue or facet of New York City life about which the City anticipates issuing further information in the future.

4. Sending informational updates and conducting outreach on topics such as, but not limited to, public benefits and services and upcoming City events.

5. Sharing information with other City agencies or offices or other government agencies for the limited purpose of facilitating services and benefits, in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations.

6\. Disclosure of such information pursuant to a request made under Freedom of
Information Law ("FOIL") or court order, if such information is not protected
by federal, or state, or local law. 6

The City does not rent or sell personally identifiable information (e.g.,
information such as name, address, phone number, e-mail, etc., or other
information that identifies or could lead to the identification of a user as a
particular person), nor would the City exchange or trade such information with
third-parties without a user's explicit permission. The City does not disclose
credit card or other personally identifiable financial information other than
as necessary to complete a credit card or other financial transaction, or upon
explicit permission from the applicable user. All such use by the City of
financial information shall be subject to the section of this policy on
financial issues, set forth below.

If a NYC.gov user has elected not to receive further information from the
City, NYC.gov will not send such information. If a NYC.gov user has elected to
receive further communication from the City, NYC.gov will only send
information in categories that are authorized by the user. If NYC.gov sends
electronic mail ("e-mail") to a user, such e-mail is NOT confidential, 7 and
is identical in nature to that information generally available to the public
and news media.

Security and Monitoring
1\. In certain instances, a user may have the opportunity to receive or create
a password to access or submit personally identifiable information. One should
not divulge a password to anyone, and the City will never ask a user for a
password in a telephone call, fax, e-mail or other form of unsolicited
communication. When a user is finished with an application or applications
that are password protected, such user should exit the relevant page(s). If
the browser used to access said password protected pages is a publicly-
accessible browser, users should close down the entire session and, if
applicable or possible, flush any temporary caches or other areas where such a
password might be stored subsequent to use, and log out of all applications.

2\. The City has integrated industry standard or better security measures and
systems into the design, implementation and day to day operation of NYC.gov
and its underlying servers and networks.  8 Furthermore, the City maintains
ongoing efforts to identify and/or block unauthorized intrusions into or onto
NYC.gov, and to upload to or change information on or otherwise cause damage
to NYC.gov or the information resident hereon or submitted hereto. 9

3\. The act of using NYC.gov constitutes the User's express consent to the
City's monitoring of all uses of the system. If such monitoring reveals
possible evidence of criminal activity or any other unauthorized use, system
administration personnel may provide your information to law enforcement or
other officials, as authorized or required by law.

Cookies
Cookies are text files, or entries in larger files, utilized to distinguish
between visitors to a website, and to track information during multiple visits
to a website. The City uses "temporary cookies" 10 on some parts of NYC.gov,
and such temporary cookies expire upon the end of the browsing session. This
website and NYC.gov generally, do not use "persistent cookies." 11 However, if
a user registers to use NYC.gov as a customized portal, the City uses a
persistent cookie to facilitate such customization. The City may also use
persistent cookies to understand the distribution and patterns of unique and
repeat visitors for 311 Online and other sites on NYC.gov to enhance their
accessibility.

The use of cookies is a standard practice among Internet websites. Most
Internet web browsers may be customized to reject cookies, to only accept or
reject cookies by user intervention, or to delete cookies. Rejecting and/or
removing cookies, however, may lead to loss of functionality on those NYC.gov
pages requiring cookies to function fully. Additionally, if a user has created
a customized version of NYC.gov, the City will create a cookie that contains
the user's unique identifier and indicator for any custom content modules
requested and, if a user elected the "remember me" option for signing in to
NYC.gov, the cookie will contain a user's password. Deletion of such a cookie
could result in the loss of one's customized NYC.gov portal settings.



Web Bugs (a/k/a Web Beacons)
NYC.gov does not use web bugs 12 on its web pages or in any html e-mail
generated by use of the portal, or otherwise sent from NYC.gov, for any
purpose other than to identify site performance needs; to ensure compatibility
with the technology used by NYC.gov's visitors, and to generally add and
improve services offered on NYC.gov.

Children
No applications on NYC.gov specifically solicit information from minors or
seek to determine whether the visitor is a minor. Consequently, because such
information will not be specifically identified as being from minors, users of
NYC.gov should be aware that personally identifiable information submitted to
NYC.gov by minors will be subject to being treated in the same manner as
information given by an adult and may become subject to FOIL.

The City strongly believes that parental supervision is an important factor in
Internet use by minors. Therefore, NYC.gov asks parents to guide their minor
children when children are asked to provide any personal information online.
NYC.gov further asks that children ask for and receive their parent's
permission before providing any information online.

Health Care Information
Any agency subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
of 1996 and its regulations (collectively, "HIPAA") that creates, receives,
maintains, or transmits via NYC.gov any Protected Health Information ("PHI"),
as that term is defined by HIPAA, must comply with HIPAA's Privacy and
Security Rules.  The agency must also require its Business Associates, as that
term is defined by HIPAA, to comply with HIPAA when, on behalf of the agency,
each such Business Associate creates, receives, maintains, or transmits PHI
hosted by NYC.gov. Nothing stated herein shall be interpreted to diminish the
compliance requirements imposed by any other applicable law or City policy.

Third Party Links
NYC.gov provides links to, and may be linked from, local, State and federal
government agencies, and from, or to, other websites. The existence and/or
provision of those links neither constitutes nor implies endorsement of the
destination or departure website(s) or of the content, viewpoint, accuracy,
opinions, policy(ies), product(s), accessibility or privacy policy of said
destination or departure website(s). Nor does any link between NYC.gov and a
third-party website imply sponsorship of such website, or the creator of such
website

Some content on portions of NYC.gov resides on servers run by third parties.
13 Each agency providing content for NYC.gov is bound by NYC.gov's Privacy
Policy. Any agency using a third-party host, ISP, ASP or other combination of
third-party transport, storage, content or application provision services
shall require such third party to comply with NYC.gov's Privacy Policy.

Intellectual Property
The content of NYC.gov's webpages is copyrighted, and contains some third
party images/graphics that are used with permission. Users are notified,
therefore, that one should presume the need to obtain permission from the
copyright holder before reproducing or otherwise using images/graphics from
this website.
NYC.gov may change this policy from time to time, and reserves the right to do
so without notice.



* * *

Privacy Statement Footnotes

1 An IP address is a numeric value assigned to an Internet Service Provider, a
computer network, an individual computer or router, or a firewall
(collectively, "users") so that other computers on the Internet may direct
Internet message or other traffic to such users. Until the IP addressing
system is changed, an IP address will take the form of XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX, where
the X's are numbers between 1 and 9, and 0 for some positions. The term "user"
may also refer to an individual who has created an account on NYC.gov and any
of its subpages.
Go Back

2 A Domain Name is an alphanumeric value that represents the plain language
(English or such other local language as is relevant) translation of the IP
address assigned to a specific user or collection of users. For example, if a
user had an IP address of 123.123.123.123, the Domain Name that represented
that address might be WWW.HOME.COM.
Go Back

3 Commercial and non-commercial marketing purposes include, for the purposes
of this policy, Unsolicited Commercial Electronic Mail (colloquially known as
"SPAM" e-mail), targeted e-mail for the purpose of selling products, or the
sale or exchange of personally identifiable information between parties that
anticipate receiving value in exchange for such information.
Go Back

4 The City of New York's duties and obligations toward its citizens are set
forth in the City Charter and in all applicable and relevant federal, state,
and local law.
Go Back

5  When the City is investigating a problem reported to NYC.gov, the
information you have submitted through NYC.gov may be seen by various people.
Among other City actions, we may enter the information you send into our
electronic database to share it with our attorneys and investigators involved
in law enforcement or public policy development. We may also share it with a
variety of other government agencies enforcing consumer protection,
competition, and other laws. You may be contacted by any of those agencies.
Go Back

6 Pursuant to Article 6 of NYS Public Officers Law 87, certain categories of
information may be exempt from such disclosure under FOIL including, but not
limited to, records whose disclosure would constitute an unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy under 89(2) of Article 6, or might endanger the life or
safety of any person.
Go Back

7 E-mail is generally not secure against interception. If a communication is
very sensitive, or includes personal information like a bank account, charge
card, or other personal information, it is more prudent to send such
communication by postal mail instead.
Go Back

8 The City maintains user registration information behind a "firewall" and
limits accessibility to such information to only those few employees that have
special access rights to production systems. Sensitive information submitted
by users is transmitted by Secure Socket Layer ("SSL") technology and
encrypted.
Go Back

9  For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
available to all users, the City employs software programs to monitor network
traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or
otherwise cause damage. Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change
information on this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable
under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information
Infrastructure Protection Act, and such other federal, state or local law as
is applicable.
Go Back

10 Temporary or "Session Cookies" are cookie files that last or are valid only
during an active communications connection, measured from beginning to end,
between computer or applications (or some combination thereof) over a network.
Go Back

11 Persistent cookies are cookie files that remain upon a user's hard drive
until affirmatively removed, or until expired as provided for by a pre-set
expiration date.
Go Back

12 A web bug is a clear, camouflaged or otherwise invisible graphics image
format ("GIF") file placed upon a web page or in hypertext markup language
("HTML") e-mail and used to monitor who is reading a web page or the relevant
email. Web bugs can also be used for other monitoring purposes such a
profiling of the affected party.
Go Back

13 These third parties are computers, computer networks, ISPs, or application
service providers ("ASPs") that are non-governmental in nature and have direct
control of what information is automatically gathered, whether cookies are
used, and how voluntarily provided information is used.
Go Back

Share

Print
